This is Jocko podcast number 28 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
He was a mate,
a real good mate.
He was a friendly sort of fella liked the joke and if it had to happen,
it's a shame it had to happen to such a decent bloke.
But Ah,
fair.
Dinkum don't it make you wonder what God and heavens thinking about up there,
the way he chooses who does sacrifice to me,
it doesn't quite seem fair.
Okay.
You'd think he'd want to blow to take a bloke like me could be no loss to no one
here on earth.
But no,
he always seems to pick the best.
Whose life amounts to 10 times what mine's worth.
Yeah.
Now there's a sort of aching here inside.
I can't quite put my finger on what's wrong,
but a soldier can afford to feel this way.
He's got a grit his teeth and carry on.
So how's a bloke supposed to deal with this?
I know they trained me well.
I can't complain.
But this is something you don't learn about when they teach you how to play the
soldiers game.
They teach you how to shoot and how to kill you.
Even learn which enemy to hate,
but nowhere in their training do you learn
how to live with the loss of a real good mate.
Hm.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening.
Good [inaudible].
That is an excerpt from a poem called,
he was a made by a man named Lackland Irvine,
who's an Australian guy served in Vietnam as part of the three Ra are the Third
Battalion Royal Australian Regiment.
Okay.
And you know,
you look at the Vietnam War and there was definitely some major advances in
terms of technology because they had now things like helicopters and
better radios and they had the beginning of night vision and they had jets and
better communication.
But even with all those technological changes,
the basic principles of combat remained the same.
They always do cover,
move,
keep things simple,
prioritize next cute decentralized command.
But in addition to those technological changes,
there was different says now with the people,
obviously in Vietnam there was a massive antiwar movement in America and around
the world and in America a lot of the troops were draftees.
Yeah.
Now,
this is something I have to explain all the time and I have explained it on here
before and that is that seals and soldiers and marines are not robots.
There are people,
and even though seals for instance,
have always been a volunteer force,
and today all the military in the u s is all volunteers.
You're still free thinking individuals.
They're people,
they're humans and you have to lead them.
But what's interesting is when you look at the leadership principles used to
effectively lead troops today,
it's the same leadership principles to effectively lead the draftees in Vietnam.
Draftees or volunteers,
conventional forces or special operators or civilian teams and companies in
organization,
the fundamental leadership principles use to actually lead.
They do not change at their core.
And there's a great example of this,
and again,
we're going back to a guy by the name of Colonel David Hackworth who wrote about
face.
We've talked about them before in this podcast.
That book is,
it's actually my favorite book of any category,
but definitely within the realm of combat and combat leadership about face by
David Hackworth.
Colonel David Hackworth is at the top of my list,
but he actually went into even more detail about one particular episode of his
career and that was when he took over a battalion in Vietnam that was in pretty
rough shape
and he wrote about that particular experience in more detail in a book called
the steel my soldiers hearts.
Right.
It is about the,
the subtitle is the hopeless to hardcore transformation of U s army.
Fourth Battalion,
39th infantry in Vietnam.
Okay.
Then let's go ahead and jump on in.
Yeah.
Three times before 1969 I had made the same 18 hour trip across the Pacific to
Southeast Asia and nothing had changed.
The plane was full of fngs fucking new guys,
19 and 20 year olds,
pink chick,
cheeked,
dry mouth,
wide eyed,
eager but scared.
One more load of fresh meat for the Vietnam Grinder.
I couldn't help wondering which one of them,
the Kiaa travel bureau would be bagging up for their return trip home.
Even the lucky ones,
the ones who made it out alive would never be the same.
Okay.
And he talks about arriving.
So it gets to Vietnam and he talks about arriving in in in the headquarters guy
named general Ewells headquarters,
and you've heard me talk about this before about how some of the bases on Iraq
there were really,
really nice.
All built up.
They had Starbucks on them,
they had swimming pools,
they had nice gyms,
they had movie theaters.
Okay.
On basis in Iraq.
I know it sounds crazy for people that didn't go there,
but that's what America does.
We have awesome logistics.
We have awesome support.
We have a really well funded,
and you know what?
We're going to build a big base over there.
We're going to make it pretty nice.
Hey,
it's the same thing here that Hackworth rolls into an in Vietnam and here we go.
Back to the book.
I walked off the pad and jumped into a jeep with a kid behind its wheel waiting
to run me over to general you'lls headquarters.
The ride was an eye opener,
nearly 10,000 rear echelon mother fuckers ramps to the grunts out on the line.
We're stationed in Dong Tam surrounded by all the creature comforts.
I saw a miniature golf course and a swimming pool.
I caught a glimpse inside of barracks decked out with clean beds under mosquito
nets.
These guys pulled down the same combat pay as the soldiers and the Bush who
lived in the mud,
washed their feet,
rot,
burning leaches out of their crotches and laying down their lives.
So that's a common term is Renfe comes from Vietnam.
Irrational on mother Fucker,
obviously Lafe and I named our business echelon front because we want it to be
that we want to be perfectly here and everybody that we were not talking about
leadership from the rear,
right?
What you're talking about,
leadership from the front.
So Hackworth goes and he spends a half an hour with a general Ewell and he kinda
gets told what's what.
And then he kind of gives his assessment of what he's heard.
He says,
pragmatically,
I could do nothing about the chain of command and the tactical operational
stupidity of Dong Tam.
I'd be out of fuels and Hans eyesight soon enough and worrying about how to con
how combat operations were being handled from above was a waste of time.
At best and got men killed at worst.
There be ways around that.
The reason I highlighted that is cause a lot of times I get asked questions
from,
from troopers out there that say,
hey,
you know I got this issue with my boss.
My boss is doing this,
my boss is doing that.
This is what I try and tell them,
look,
it doesn't really matter.
Do you know you got to get out there in the field and you make some space and
then you execute how you execute.
You know,
I'm not saying you've got to disobey,
but people can't control you and as long as you're accomplishing the mission,
you're finding the best way to do it,
you're going to be fine.
So don't get all caught up in exactly what the boss is saying.
Let's figure out what the spirit of what the boss is saying.
Let's see what they want to get accomplished.
And then you go out and make it happen because no boss should be telling you
something that's completely out of sync with what your goals are.
I mean damn sure in the military you shouldn't be getting told something like,
Hey,
get your guys killed or give up sensitive information or lose the war.
No one's going to tell you to do that.
They're going to tell you to keep your guy's alive.
You're going to tell you to make progress on the battlefield.
So when you get that sort of,
when you,
when you pull that commander's intent out of people and you know what it is that
they want you to accomplish,
go forward and accomplish it,
don't get all caught up in the little details that you might not agree with.
They're not going to make that big of a difference out there.
Now,
as I,
as I said this,
this book is actually about the transformation of the fourth battalion,
39th infantry.
So he,
he's flying out and he talked about this,
about in,
about facing,
we actually covered on the podcast.
This is a little bit more detail.
So it,
I find it,
I find it to be more,
uh,
cover some details that's needed,
but he's flying out to this battalion,
which really was having a hard time.
And the guy brought him in,
the general broad him in because they knew that that Hackworth was a hard ass
and that he was a good performer,
that he,
if anyone could get this battalion turned around,
it would be him.
So they brought him out there.
So now he flies out and this is his first impression of the base where he's
heading.
When I landed,
I couldn't believe my eyes or nose.
The whole base smelled of raw shit and rotting morale.
Toilet paper,
blue across the chopper pad,
machine gun.
The ammo was buried in the mud and troops wandered around like zombies.
They're weapons gone red with rust.
These were the sloppiest American soldiers I'd ever seen a bar,
none on camped on washed unshaven their uniforms,
ragged and dirty hippy beads dangling alongside their dog tags,
their helmets covered with graffiti,
not exactly what you're looking for in a good squared away military
organization.
Okay.
Now one of the guys that he brings in,
he brings in one of his guys to be the senior enlisted there to be as his
command sergeant major.
And it's a guy named Robert Press.
And here's what he says about,
about Robert Press.
We'd also served together in the states as well as in Vietnam and our
partnership went all the way back to the same unit during Korea.
Lean and mean press would be my new battalion sergeant major,
that non coms chief ass kicker and new role model.
You get it,
you get a good impression of what that guy's like.
This is a,
this is a gunny highway scenario
and here's what press had to say about the local,
about,
about the troops I is,
this is from pressing,
I looked around and seen no one wearing helmets,
no one caring their weapons.
Everybody in the CP,
that's a command post group was sleeping above ground.
Sleeping above ground means if they get bombed,
they're going to get killed.
I didn't see a Fox foxhole anywhere,
sir.
This outfit stinks worse than we thought.
Okay.
So that's their first impression going into this obviously bad,
bad situation
getting these are draftees and it's even,
I got to keep reminding me,
sell myself that too,
because the whole time I was in the military is an all volunteer military and
sure you get some slackers and some knuckleheads,
but at least people had volunteered at some point to be there.
These people are being pulled against their will.
I mean,
I think you're a better,
better example of this than me.
Echo,
Echo.
Imagine when you were 18 years old,
I mean,
when I was 18 years old,
I was already signed up.
I was Ian.
Imagine when you were 18 years old and them coming at you.
Where were you when you were 18 in the University of Hawaii?
Yes.
Playing football.
Now what if they came to you and said,
hey,
echo.
Got It.
Do you have to go in the military?
You're going to Vietnam?
How,
how would you feel about that?
Yeah,
no.
it'd be rough.
Yeah,
and,
and you as a discipline,
football player,
that's an athlete,
you are going to be 10 steps above someone.
That's,
you know,
out on the streets of,
Haight Ashbury smoking dope.
Yeah.
But that's who these people were.
It's a cross section of America.
So sure you would get some kids that were getting drafted from Iowa,
a farm kid that's like,
hey,
it's my turn to fight.
I'm going to go do it.
And then you're going to get,
you know,
you're gonna get every cross section.
Hmm.
So worth when you just don't want to be there.
Then every word out of it,
like someone telling you what to do or something that you know that you got to
go do everything.
Every little thing.
Yes.
And you can't have that attitude.
You have to shift that.
Like when I went through officer candidate school officer candidate school is
like bootcamp,
but it's a little longer.
And I had already been in the,
in the military for eight years when I went to officer candidate school.
And you know,
they're yelling at me about the way my underwears folded and yelling at me about
looking at my food when I'm eating and yelling at me about my,
about my socks,
not be enrolled upright.
So I'm a grown man then in the seal teams for like eight years this point and
this happened and you know what I did loved it,
said,
Oh really?
My underwears not measured four by four inches when it's folded up,
I will correct that now and make it four by four inches because deep down could
you kind of recognize the value that this is,
this is somehow valuable in my goal.
But man,
if you're there against your will and they're like do this or whatever,
I don't even want to be you also let you like I made it into a game,
right?
I made it into a game that I played with my full intention of winning.
You know,
for instance,
they make you yell everything at officer candidate school you have to yell every
word that you say with the Joel instructors or where your friends or whoever,
we are not your friends,
but with the other candidates we had to yell everything.
They call it a ballistic tone.
And so I made everyone yell one cause I was the class president.
I made everybody yell 100% of the time.
So,
for instance,
the upperclassmen had a little closet that they would sell food out of,
you know,
candy bars and sodas.
Right.
And we had to line up if we wanted to buy something.
So I told all my people,
you know,
you,
when you go in there,
you met,
you maintain your ballistic voice at all times.
So they're there.
So my whole class lines up and they're going in and everyone is yelling at the
top of their lungs.
Like I will take one coca cola and one snickers bar,
please star.
And it took about 10 people going through and finally the upperclassmen came out
and they said,
hey you guys,
when you come in here,
don't be ballistic.
And of course I said request permission to speak.
You guys are not maintaining the standard of officer candidate school.
We are supposed to maintain ballistic tone at all times.
And they just were looking at me like they wanted to kill me but they couldn't
say anything because I was correct.
So that's the kind of thing [inaudible] that was a victory for my class,
you know,
cause that was the upperclassmen.
I was like a cool victory for the class and everyone was all laughing at and
fired up.
You know,
like we're going to be so perfect that people are going to get angry with us.
So that,
that's what I did.
Uh,
now going back to the book here,
he kicks this one off.
This is directly out of about phase two there.
And it's also,
well this one says there are no bad troops,
just bad officers in the,
in the book extreme ownership by Lafe and I,
we have a little chapter in there called no bad teams,
only bad leaders.
So it's the same thing.
And that axiom goes back to Napoleon who said,
you know,
no bad regimens,
only bad kernels or something along those lines.
So then he talks a little bit about the guy who was previously in command,
a guy by the name of Colonel Lark and that's a pseudonym.
So,
but here we go.
After six months under Colonel Lark,
the four 39th had suffered the equivalent of nearly 40% casualties without ever
meeting a significant enemy force in open combat rockets,
mortars,
booby traps,
friendly fire had done most of the damage.
That's
same thing in Iraq.
That's what most people were facing in Iraq.
Rockers,
rockets,
mortars,
booby traps,
which is ids friendly fire.
That's where you're getting most of your casualties from.
Of course,
in Iraq it was mostly iads,
but then mortars,
rockets,
and then you get your gun fights.
I don't,
you know,
blue on blue definitely makes up a section,
not a huge section
and of course obviously it's something that we experienced back to the book
here.
All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark.
Sun Tzu wrote over 2,500 years ago.
Low ground is not only damp and unhealthy,
but also disadvantages for fighting.
If you are careful of your men and camp on hard ground,
your army will be free from disease of every con,
every kind,
and this will spelled victory.
I don't think General Westmoreland or the u s commanders running the warm
Vietnam New Sun Su from Sonny and Cher.
Then here he talks about what the damaging effects were of being in the low
ground in just 48 hours and soaking jungle boots,
foot rot set in mosquito zap them with malaria leeches sucked onto their balls
and even up Dick's and morale vaporize before Charlie fired one shot.
Luckily we've covered sown sue on here,
so no,
nobody that's listen to the podcast is ever going to be out there.
Thinking of without thinking about the basic principles that sun suit taught,
most of the four 39 soldiers knew that each time they took a step,
they risked the ugliest of wounds.
A bullet makes a hole.
A chunk of shrapnel may take off an arm,
but a mind turns a soldier into a splattered shrapnel punctured basket case.
Many troopers in the battalion had concluded that waging war consistent of
crossing a field,
hitting a mind,
calling for a medic,
patching up the wounded,
getting a medivac,
then moving out again and hating another mine.
They also did the math and figured out that not many of them would be lucky
enough to make it through 365 days it took to rotate home.
It's a horrible view of war.
You don't,
we're going to do,
we're going to walk around in the Bush until we hit a mine.
Some of us are going to get blown up.
We're going to call it a matter of Akron and get 'em out of there the best we
can if they're not dead and then we're going to keep walking until it happens
again.
Back to the book,
the wounds were vicious.
Young men,
blinded legs and arms and dicks and balls ripped off.
Bodies,
punctured with dozens of bleeding holes for the VC.
Mines and booby traps were economy of force weapons,
easy to deploy,
cheap to produce besides causing heavy casualties.
They presume produced a lot of psychological stress.
Soldiers never knew when they would lose a foot,
a leg or a life and the frustrating part was there were a few ways to fight back
cause who are you going to fight against?
The bomb goes off.
There's no one there.
It's it's,
it's a victim activated IED,
which means you stepped on a pressure plate.
Oh,
you pulled the trip wire,
something that you did,
made it blow up.
There's no one,
there's no one to fight against.
No one to shoot.
Back at
the tally of back to the book,
the tally of needless death in the four 39th was a well established before
Colonel Lark took command,
larks immediate predecessor,
a gung Ho lieutenant colonel drove the troops like endured indentured servants.
One Steamy Day,
a company working it's way across the rice.
Patty was plotting through several feet of water and muck while overhead in the
command and control chopper.
The colonel kept screaming faster,
go faster.
It was never going to happen.
The troops were already moving at Max speed in a lather.
The colonel landed jumping out of his Birdie,
spread to a patty dyke and then leapt on top of it to make his point.
A Supreme Mekong Delta.
No,
no.
And when the almost instantaneous explosion blew him 20 feet in the air and he
died immediately.
It needlessly the ultimate ego trip.
I was told the grunts cheered.
So the reason I highlighted that is because when we start talking about
Hackworth and what he does,
you're going to see that he's going to like you.
The terms he uses here is a gung Ho lieutenant drove the troops,
right?
You're gonna hear,
you're gonna hear Hackworth doing the same thing.
But there's a difference in the way that he does it.
He understands what he's doing.
He's not just doing it out of ego and not oppressing the guys for no particular
reason.
And then the other side of the spectrum,
you get this Guy Lark.
When lark took command,
he knew that he had to turn things around and he worked hard to do so.
But with zero combat experience and not enough time with the troops,
has good intentions,
meant less than nothing.
Even the basics were ignored.
He wore an army green baseball cap instead of a steel pot.
Really Cool,
except that the troops who followed his model and neglected their helmets wound
up in doc Holly surgery with their brain's running down their necks.
He was,
uh,
he was into good guy.
Fraternizing to build morale,
a well intentioned notion,
but it made for bad news in the field.
So you see the two extremes.
You get the super hardcore guy that's just a maniac pushing hard.
You must do what I say.
And then you,
then the next guy comes in,
he's on the other end of the spectrum.
Hey,
I'm everybody's buddy.
Let's,
you know,
don't worry about wearing a helmet.
Hey,
I know,
I know that things uncomfortable.
Hmm.
LARC sent his a company on a three day sweep of a woodline completely empty of
VC,
but a Ho Ci Minh wet dream of booby traps and minds.
That was the day sergeant Tom Aiken lost 17 of the 29 in his platoon without
hearing a single shot.
All we were doing was tripping booby traps.
He recalls his voice trembling slightly.
There wasn't any me and there wasn't any enemy in there,
no books at all.
We knew it.
But Colonel Lark kept saying,
sweep the woodline,
sweep the look Woodbine
more than 30 years later,
a can made a list of the men in his platoon killed under LARCs command.
When he finished writing it,
his wife asked him,
how could you remember all those names after all these years?
His answer was simple.
How could I forget them?
Now here's another incident that takes place just before Hackworth arrives and
takes over.
The VC had planted in an American,
made claymore mine alongside the road.
The world blew up suddenly in smoke and fire.
Evan's recalls in doc platoon medic.
That's another book.
His blood and guts memoir of life with the Ford 39th a wall of superstar Anik
steel balls blasted the passengers shredding metal and flesh from the Bush
rockets squished down lifting the jeep and trailer up into an expanding fireball
that tossed mangled soldiers all over the road.
Automatic gunfire stitched every square foot of the road.
As those few gis still able to make,
made a run for an adjacent Waterfield ditch.
Those left behind screamed and wailed and cried out.
They crawled and pulled themselves around in the middle of the road,
like crushed bugs with limbs and pieces of their bodies missing.
Teddy Creech used his elbows to claw his way across the road like a mangled,
warm.
His hands were mutilated beyond recognition.
His leg had been severed from the hip except for a tether of bloody skin and
flesh.
The jagged end of the detached bone kept digging into the road and him in place.
He fumbled out his knife and in the way that a trapped animal will NOFX his own
foot in order to escape,
cut himself free of his own leg.
Richard Forte lay with a bullet hole in his belly is bloated.
Guts signaled heavy internal bleeding he's faced was the color of old ivory.
And that's something I've seen before where someone's gut shot and there's not a
lot of blood coming out of them,
but you can see there their stomach starts to fill up cause they're internally
bleeding and they turned super pale cause it's like they're bleeding out,
but there's bleeding inside of their own stomach and it's really obvious what's
happening to them
back to the book.
It's all right.
I'm okay doc.
He groaned,
doc.
The others,
they need you.
Go help my buddies.
Doc,
where did the army gets such men?
Evan's wondered,
thinking of over others when they themselves were dying
and what did they get in return?
The VC picked us off one by one.
He recalls one by one day after day before 39th was helpless and demoralized
against a superior army of ghosts that could do to us what it wished.
So that's the situation that the four 39th was in
just an absolute disaster.
And you can you imagine what the morale is like day after day.
You're going out,
as we just said,
going out,
walking through the Bush just in order to get blown up.
Hmm.
So that is when Hackworth comes in to take over.
And here's the,
here's the situation.
When he comes to take command,
a scraggly bunch of battalion soldiers assembled for the change of command
ceremony on disciplined and dispirited,
wondering what was going to happen to them next.
They stood like characters in a police lineup where every participant was a perp
with silver blades gleaming in the sun,
a flock of brightly Simonides,
Hueys dropped from the skies over.
Dizzy.
Dizzy is the the area where they're staying.
One by one,
starched army brass with an entourage of photographers.
Strutted across the Lz.
General Ewell leading the way.
Their fatigues pressed their sleeves precisely rolled up above their elbows into
four-inch folds,
their shoes polished to per grade ground perfection to the grunts.
They must have looked like aliens from outer space.
I stood soldier straight and watched those from on high pay.
Absolutely no attention to the assembled troops,
the men from their battalion,
their division for them,
the boys on the line.
We're beside the point,
more pawns to be ignored.
It disgusted me
in the ninth division.
That gap between the brass and the grunts looked unbridgeable.
Okay,
so if you remember,
Hackworth was a grunt.
He came as an enlisted guy.
He was a junior RMP person and he came up through the ranks.
So when he sees this behavior of these senior leaders,
which he already knows that they're back with miniature golf courses and pools
that now he sees him show up there and their starched cammies,
they're looking all perfect and they don't even pay attention to these troopers.
Even if they were to say,
look,
you guys look like crap.
What is wrong with you?
Get it together.
Even if they were to say that,
at least it be it'd be recognition.
Yeah.
What did just ignored them.
So he takes over and he says,
time for shock therapy
as I as planned,
I fired the incompetent s three that's the operations officer and the heavy drop
battalion sergeant on the spot and replace them with Bumstead and press those.
One of the guys I talked about earlier,
press and bumps that one of Hackworth,
other kind of prodigies,
thousand other changes needed to be made,
but I didn't want to bury the company commanders or our staff on the first day
together.
If I ordered all shortcomings squared away,
immediately I'd have sent these leaders into overload,
blown all their circuits.
No one would have gotten to anything.
Right.
So I approached this conversation from slackness to soldiering the same way I
train a pop.
Just a few tricks at a time.
Okay.
Starting now,
starting now,
we're going to follow the two rule plan.
I said,
I'll tell you what the two new rules are and you make them happen.
Once your troops have mastered the first two rules,
we'll add two more and we'll keep doing that until we're squared away.
First we'll crawl,
then we'll walk and then we'll run.
Just stay with me because we're going to run faster and faster every day they
shot me approve it.
Look.
Okay,
so you can see hack.
He's going into a little prioritize and execute,
right?
He knows that people can't do,
he's not going to change everything immediately.
He's got to do it and some steps,
hey,
that's the same thing you do with any,
any situation that you face.
You got multiple problems that are,
that you're looking at.
You can't or you can't change them all at once.
You can't fix them all at once.
You pick the biggest problems.
You start with those.
And here he's starting to establish and his men and his and his leadership team
as to what their attitude was with the troops.
A few days later after finding a very small soldier who told me his feet were
killing him because he couldn't get any boots to fit him,
they were all too big.
I had a little conversation with the good s four s four as the supply elements,
uh,
in the military,
in the army.
Hack went ballistic.
Johnson recalls.
He chewed out his chain of command from his squad leader to his company
commander,
and then he got a hold of me.
He made it very clear that I better get that man a pair of boots or all kinds of
horrible things were going to happen to me.
The army did not make a men's boot small enough to fit this little guy.
We scavenged the country and found a pair of women's boots that fit the bill.
This taught us all an important lesson.
That hack cared for the lowest of soldiers and he expected his commanders and
staff to damn well look after them.
This is how hack goes on a campaign to change people.
The little things build up.
Now he's continuing.
You starting to tighten things up more.
I finished my first session with a set of orders that stunned the commanders.
Here's the drill.
I told him,
we're shrinking the perimeter tonight.
I want you to recon your new positions.
When it gets dark,
each company will pull back.
You'll maintain your old positions with half your force and by midnight.
I want those holes filled in.
I want nothing left that the enemy can use,
particularly holes at the VC can hop into.
If they attack all your people will be at 100% stand to ready to fight in the
new positions by midnight.
I expect total light and noise disciplined.
Remember,
nothing happens other than reconning until after dark.
You've got,
you've got to always remember that the enemies out there in the Bush watching
our every move and he's always looking for a weak spot to knock your cock stiff
and closed down the show.
You call me at midnight from the new positions.
Midnight understood.
The commanders went out to brief their troops.
My orders went down like an iron kite.
Preparing a fighting position is hard,
sweaty work.
Moving a fighting position is even more of a bitch because you have to fill in
the old hole before digging in again.
It sucks in any circumstances.
They hated my guts
and now he does.
The same thing with is with the,
with the leadership element,
which works in the,
what's called the Toc,
the tactical operations center.
He says,
and all the talk personnel,
regardless of rank or ordered a dig in individual foxholes around it,
they'd lived there when not on duty.
My Tok order had a two fold purpose.
Having a bunkered command post made it much harder for Charlie to take out the
battalion ops center with a one well directed round,
which were markedly,
he hadn't already done.
And if Charlie hammered the battalion with incoming fire or penetrated our outer
line,
we'd have an inner perimeter of staff.
We need to hold off the enemy while we fought the good fight and calling
supporting fires.
Plus the staff would be setting a positive example for all of the line soldiers.
We'd live exactly like the grunts.
We'd sleep on the ground like stonewall Jackson did during the civil war.
No one would have a plush deal anymore.
Common theme,
we've heard that one before.
Then that night,
so after they pull their perimeter back and they've changed,
basically changed their positions to what the enemy saw during the day.
During the day,
the enemy star where they were once the,
once it got dark,
they moved to new positions.
They dug and they filled in their old holes.
Night comes and guess what?
They get attacked.
Mortar rounds.
Recoilless rifle,
rifle,
fire machine gun fire and RPG rounds,
screamed in,
Chum Roberts or calls.
Then all hell broke loose strobe lights.
They just become an sop at Hax commander's meeting that afternoon,
flipped on around the perimeter.
The VC were hitting us hard,
but we were ready now.
Wow.
I thought,
stay close to this guy and you'll be all right.
Hit another guy.
That hack overheard as they're getting this attack and they survive it and they
do well.
No one gets injured.
He hears a guy say he's a mean son of a bitch,
but he knows what he's doing.
Getting this is part of the campaign.
Okay,
dawn,
back to the book.
Dawn was breaking and press walked the perimeter.
Sir,
some of the troops are saying that you have your shit together.
He reported they're talking about how you pulled them back.
Maybe I'd made a few converts that night,
but I knew I was a long way from convincing the grunts that they could hit
Charlie harder than he was hitting them.
Okay.
Over the next four weeks,
I talked to every swinging Dick in the battalion.
I told all the soldiers,
all the sergeants,
all the lieutenants and captains in each platoon and company,
what was expected of them and why we were going to be the best.
So,
so just to reiterate what he just did,
he's going around in personally talking to all the leadership and all the
soldiers,
everyone personally talking to the mall and telling them what was expected of
them and why they were going to be the best.
This stuff just doesn't happen.
You have to make it happen when you're in a leadership position.
Back to the bucket.
When I spoke to the troops,
I promised I'd take care of their butts and be right out there with them.
When things got hot,
I wanted to get into their heads that by stealing a page from the enemy's book,
we could take the war to Charlie rather than waiting for him to strike.
Yeah.
Now he talks a little bit about the VC.
He says the VC were very detailed planners,
but strict adherence to their plan was also their Achilles heel.
They almost always stuck to this scenario even when things turned to shit,
so that's great.
You're a good planner.
That's great.
You came up with a really solid plan,
but when things start going sideways and you maintain that and plan,
you don't make any adaptations,
you're going to get crushed and that was he saying the vcs biggest weakness.
Weakness.
I also had all our,
all our leaders read a pamphlet of combat rules and tips from articles I'd
written that I put together as the battalion combat leaders guide.
I wanted them to get in their heads,
both how Charlie fought and an end thought and how I fought and fought.
I wanted to build an offensive team to make Charlie react to us instead of
calling the shots as he was doing all over Vietnam.
I stressed how we'd find him by being hardcore and agile using stealth and
Connie and how we could turn his very own tactics against him.
Then that's,
I
breezed over this,
but the other things that he had,
all this people read was Mao's little red book,
which was the,
the communist sort of manifesto about fighting and then Vietnam Primer,
which is another book that Hackworth put together so he'd have everybody.
He was,
he was educating the troops.
He was educating the leadership,
not just on how he was going to do things,
but I don't have the enemy thought,
hmm,
and this is a rehash from about face,
but let's just go ahead and rehash it.
I brought back saluting a sign of military discipline that had been swallowed up
by the rice patty mud.
Then I added a twist when a soldier saluted.
I required him to sound off with a loud,
hardcore Reccondo sir,
to which the officer would reply,
no fucking slack.
The salute discipline aside also built unit pride.
The name Rick Condo,
a combination of reconnaissance and infantry.
Doughboy came from the rugged hands on training.
The hundred and first Airborne Division practiced at Fort Campbell training
modeled after the British commando and American ranger courses.
Hank Emerson had named the First Brigade,
the RUC Condo Brigade to make the unit feel elite like an airborne outfit.
Hitchhiking on this idea,
I named the four 39th the hardcore raw condos.
Bob Press hired a machine shop in Saigon to make small black metal ricondo
arrowhead pins,
which the men quickly began wearing.
We painted the rock condo insignia on the sides of our helmets and on all of our
vehicles just below the windshield,
along with a large white hardcore.
We painted the same insignia on company and battalion signs at the fire bases
and back at our rear area in Dome Tam.
We also had sharp looking hardcore Reccondo stationary printed up and gave it to
the troops and all outgoing mail was stamped with the rock condo logo.
All of this said,
we're different.
We're not just plain old infantry where the best hardcore raw condos.
We drove the point home that an infantry combat the team,
the squad platoon and company was the primary instrument and inspiration.
We stress pride in itself.
Pride in unit it never let a buddy down.
Rifle company designations were changed from the Conventional Alpha,
Bravo,
Charlie and Delta to alert battle claim more and dagger which went down his
Mickey mouse until the troops got into it again to think it was very cool.
Okay,
well that's something that I completely
ripped off,
emulated stole from Hackworth.
When when I was a task unit commander and the,
you know the,
the designations for the task units are Alpha,
Bravo,
Charlie Delta sometimes,
sometimes delta.
Usually when I was in it was Alpha Bravo,
Charlie.
And so obviously I said,
ah,
we're not going to be Bravo.
We were assigned the name Bravo,
but we immediately changed that to bruiser
and then we lived that way
back to the book.
Hardcore soldiers wouldn't look like bums anymore either.
They'd shave every day,
wear their gear properly,
and always be in camouflage to went on ops and the leaders made it happen by
setting the example and being hard but fair,
this was all viewed as chicken shit at first.
And I was considered to quote doc Holly,
the original Gi Joe Lifer sent from hell the burn their hides with fire and
brimstone.
So if you don't know this lifer,
the term lifer in the military,
especially during Vietnam,
you know that's the opposite of a draft.
You know,
a draftee that does just wants to do his time and get out.
The opposite of that is a lifer.
Someone that's totally into it,
someone that's totally Gung Ho and fired up and they call him the original Gi
Joe Lifer
as claymore companies.
Jim Robertson put it in the February letter to his parents.
Our new kernel is nuts.
It would take a week to tell you all the nutty things he's done.
So I'll make it short line.
Companies are offering $1,600 for his dead body.
He won't last long.
He'll get zapped.
He stark raving mad.
Yeah.
Nobody liked hack alert companies.
Tom Ake and recalls.
I remember the guys from B Company talking about we're going to kill the son of
a bitch and we're going to put a bounty on them,
and I'm telling you the truth,
if I've ever told it in my life,
I turned around and glanced at one of them said I,
one of them,
and I said,
I'll throw in the first $20
but each time they saluted,
they gave themselves a little subconscious commercial,
a brainwashing that they were hardcore and after awhile I knew they'd begin to
believe they were the meanest mothers in Vietnam.
The men of soon to be hardcore battalion hadn't seen anything yet.
Threats are no threats.
I continued to issue them a d daily,
Basic Brown shoe,
army ass kicking and tighten both the discipline and standards more and more of
all the many traits needed to survive and win on the battlefield.
Discipline is number one without absolute disciplined,
you lose.
And these guys still had virtually none
in.
Again,
I got to point out that the original,
remember the original guy that were super hardcore and trying to impose this
discipline,
it's very similar to what hacks doing.
Very similar.
The difference being number one,
he cares about that guys and they just haven't seen that yet.
They don't understand that the discipline that he's teaching them is going to
keep them alive and when they recognize that mentally he knows he's got to push
that through that point.
He's not making them do things just to make them do not,
he's not me.
He's not using discipline just to be a four or a Tarion and prove that he can
make them do it.
That's not his goal.
That's not what he's doing.
He truly is.
He's the reason he's trying to impose discipline on them is to keep them alive
because he cares about those guys and it's going to take a little bit of time
for them to recognize it,
but once they recognize it,
they're going to be on board.
Okay,
here's what he told his a battalion leaders.
Okay.
The leadership inside the battalion.
If you take care of your soldiers,
they'll take care of you.
According to battle companies,
Lieutenant Carl Olsen and ocs grow drafty who is sharp as a Hinson custom knife.
The rules were simple check weapons,
check feet,
show that you care and let the troops know.
If we get into deep shit,
help will be the way
I used every second every day to train and instill discipline beginning with
something as basic as making sure every man wore has steel pot and carried his
weapons at all times.
Yeah,
we trained in the fire base.
We trained on the ambush patrol.
We trained sweeping a large patch of jungle.
We trained searching for Charlie.
I stressed all the unit leaders that all of the drills must be executed over and
over again until they become automatic.
I wanted these soldiers to roll into a firing position or take counter ambush
action even in their sleep.
Close combat allows little time to think,
do it right and training and you'll do it right when the incoming slugs flash
by.
Okay.
Training and discipline.
Discipline in trading.
Okay.
The men groaned and moaned,
but sacrificing and suffering together gave them pride in taking all that crazy
bastard could throw at us as a tenant.
Taller described it.
So now you're starting to get them unified a little bit just in fighting against
the man,
you know,
against Hackworth.
I'll will,
that's very similar to what happens in the bootcamp or in officer candidate
school.
The,
the drill instructor or the drill sergeant sort of becomes the enemy that you're
fighting against.
You know,
you want it but you want to,
you want to beat him.
You don't want them to find dirt.
You want,
you want your room to be squared away,
you want the,
the platoon to be squared away.
And so you start to unify as a team.
But the only reason you're unifying as a team is because there's someone to
unify against.
Right.
On purpose kind of.
Yeah.
And then eventually you realize that he's doing,
it's the same thing that he taught me to talk about here.
Eventually you realize that he's doing this to make you a better person and make
your unit stronger.
Yeah.
Okay.
Hot Chow routine under lark was now a blurred memory from softer days.
My idea of looking after the troops is not to spoon feed them,
but to make them as hard as forged steel deadly in there.
Kill or be killed.
Trade
eating c rations everyone knew could easily eat.
Everyone knew hot food could easily be flown in,
made the point better than 10 lectures.
The ways of the past were over.
That's something that I didn't talk about.
LARC would flow,
would have hot food delivered on a daily basis and there's risk and there'd be
convoys that would get blown up and Hackworth.
No,
we're going to eat field food.
The ways of the past were over.
Stay alert and stay alive.
You make a unit proud by praising it and you can't make a soldier proud by
telling him how tough or good he is.
That's superficial stuff.
No pain,
no gain.
They had to earn it.
The standard was perfection and not just for the grunts.
All the battalion support personnel,
cooks,
corks,
supply drivers were to be soldiers.
First
important stuff.
Your unit doesn't become good just by you telling them that they're good.
In fact,
I always think that sets them back.
You're good to go.
Oh,
you're doing great.
But they get that little bit of satisfaction.
They get the satisfaction of their ego starts to think,
I'm doing great.
Yeah,
I don't.
You train as hard,
right?
Even just for one day,
you don't think I'm doing great.
Yeah,
I'm ahead of the game,
but whatever little day off over there.
Yeah.
Not Good at plan.
Nope.
Regardless of my heavy schedule,
I made sure to talk to every replacement,
to welcome them to the hardcore before they went out to their units at night.
I'd come back from operations late and sergeant major press would have the
replacements assembled and waiting.
I stretched to each new man how important he was,
how important it was to follow the basic fundamentals of the infantry man's
trade.
With the zeal of evangelist,
all hardcore leaders drilled into new guys that when they joined the hardcore,
they were joining a special brotherhood.
I made the code for the these leaders.
Simple and clear.
Fight Smart.
Never be in a hurry.
Lead from up front.
Set the examples.
Take care of the truth the for you.
Take care of yourself.
Keep the good camo going.
Follow the Vietnam Primer and the battalion combat leaders guide.
That's it.
Simple,
clearer instructions for his leadership.
Many combat vets come to think they know it all and start taking shortcuts.
They blow off the basics and neglect the little things that keep them alive
because they get cocky or think it's better for their men's morale.
They build a fire at dusk,
smoke at night,
walk on trails.
Don't carry their weapons.
Goof off on security.
Don't save their grenades or weapons.
Where mosquito repellent on ambush or patrol don't send out flank security on
operations.
Shortcuts get you killed.
Yeah,
the troops continued to bitch,
but that changed when they saw the tough love was for real.
One day murder,
one of his leadership,
one day murder saw soldier wearing jungle boots with the toes out and
immediately gave him his own,
a pair of his own,
which happened to be the right size.
The story spread like wildfire.
Finally,
someone cared not long afterward Merton or went down in the CNC chopper to pick
up a wounded soldier,
a soldier wounded by a mine as the medic slip,
the wounded man on the chopper floor,
he looked up at murder,
grinned,
saluted,
and said hardcore Reccondo Sir or new Gung Ho attitude started to take hold
and that's
the opening of the book.
And then you get into the combat that they went through,
which was
just a great,
great stories and lessons you can learn from understanding the tactics that they
use,
the leadership,
the pressure situations that they went through.
And it's definitely a book that you should get and read so you can absorb all
that information.
But I'm going to go to the end of the book,
did he afterward?
And it's something that hack war wrote basically right after he had got done.
Right.
Right after he got done being the battalion commander and he'd led them through
a bunch of combat.
He changed them from the hopeless to the hardcore fan track.
Fantastic display of leadership.
Okay.
Then it's,
you know,
it's like the boat crew story.
And in our book,
you know when the,
when they changed the boat crews from the boat crew,
six team is in the last place in all the races and in broke or two's winning all
the races and they just switched the leaders and all of a sudden boat crew six
starts winning the races.
It's the same thing here you have a battalion that's horrible,
that's the one of the worst that's got the worst record in Vietnam.
And sure enough,
you put in a new leader and they become the best battalion in Vietnam.
Leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield.
Okay,
so from those,
from that experience,
he goes into this,
I could never figure out army logic.
The command of an infantry or tank platoon is the most demanding and dangerous
job in the armed forces.
Yet the army senior brass consistently failed to recognize this reality and
provide lieutenants which practical hands on training they need.
As a result,
platoons too frequently wind up under their command of under the command of the
least qualified,
most inexperienced leaders in the military.
The average infantry lieutenant who joined hardcore in 1969 was simply not
prepared to lead a rifle platoon because the army's approach to training failed
to ready him for the reality of combat Vietnam.
He was extremely weak in true bleeding,
practical knowledge and small unit combat operations and was almost without
actual field experience.
The old saying good judgment comes from experience and experienced is gained
from bad judgement was certainly applicable in the hardcore,
and this is something that if you're a leader in a leadership position,
you have to let your subordinates lead and you have to let them exercise their
judgment and you've got to let them see the consequences of bad judgment.
If you don't,
they're never gonna learn
back to the book.
Besides technical and tactical incompetence,
the next biggest shortcomings of new infantry leader replacements were a failure
to be demanding and a reluctance to ensure that their men carried out the basics
that would keep them alive on the battlefield.
Lack of discipline.
One of the reasons for these deficiencies was that many of the social values
were diametrically opposed to what's expected of a combat leader.
To take a single case in point.
I had to constantly deal with a civilian instilled value that drastically
conflicts with the combat leadership principle.
Popularity.
Yeah.
By the time these young men entered the army,
they'd been brainwashed for at least 20 years about the importance of being a
nice guy.
After four years of college ROTC,
your military academy training or about a year of basic infantry and ocs,
they were supposed to be well prepared leaders who always placed the welfare of
their troops just below the accomplishment of the mission wrong.
The average new lieutenant who joined the hardcore had an almost Pavlovian
instinct for being popular,
so the definition of welfare was up for grabs because he had to be a good guy.
He'd become a joiner instead of an enforcer.
Instead of a leader,
become part of the pack.
Need to step up and be a leader
in Vietnam.
Good guys,
let their people smoke at night and take portable radios to the field.
Good guys allowed night ambushes to be set up an abandoned hooches so they
wouldn't get wet and left.
Only one guard by the door so everyone else could get a good night's rest.
I let their men leaves their boots on for several days and didn't inspect their
feet,
resulting in immersion foot.
They didn't make sure they're men,
kept their weapons and magazines perfectly clean or protected themselves against
mosquitoes or took the required material,
uh,
malaria pills,
good guy.
Lieutenants ended up killing their men with kindness.
And you got to ask yourself,
even,
I mean,
this is,
you know,
we're talking about combat here,
but if you're in a leadership position in a business and you're not helping your
troops by enforcing,
by teaching,
by holding the line,
by disciplining them.
If you're in charge of a group of people and you're not doing that,
you're,
they're not going to perform the way they're supposed to perform.
They're not going to,
then that means your business isn't going to perform the way your business is
supposed to perform.
That means your business is going to go down.
So you're actually going to take the job away from the person,
cause you're not gonna be able to afford to pay him anymore.
So because you didn't hold the line because you want it to be nice cause you
wanted to be a good guy.
You're,
you're actually doing the worst thing for them.
You're killing them with kindness.
Right.
Is that kind of like,
Whoa,
how you said,
um,
something about your kids.
Like if I'm helping them on the,
I'm helping them iron vertigo.
Right,
right.
That's very similar.
Cause if you're,
if you're letting your,
let's say you've got salespeople and you say,
Oh you know what?
Don't worry about making some phone calls today.
Right?
You know what?
I don't want to push you too hard.
What would you rather just go for lunch with me?
Would that be nice?
Would that make me a good guy?
What should they,
what should you be doing?
If you're a good leader?
Should be saying,
look,
get on the phone.
You got bills to pay,
you've got a mortgage to pay,
you got kids you want to send to college,
get on the phone and start dialing.
Make it happen.
Let's go,
let's do this.
Are you,
are you a better leader if you do that?
If you're going,
well,
that's their school.
I hadn't gone to lunch and understand you're not in the mood.
I know that field.
Let's go eat lunch and have them.
That's a great,
a great twist on that term of killing people with kindness because I actually
use that.
You know when someone's being a jerk,
how,
what should you do?
I always say,
oh yeah,
I know.
Kill them with kindness and I literally mean it,
but this is a different way of doing it.
Yeah,
it's obviously a whole different thing.
It's just the same phrase
while the back to the book,
while the run of the mill lieutenants had a vague idea of what was required,
he didn't have the experience or good sense to enforce the rules.
When push came to shove,
he preferred to turn his head the other way rather than come down hard on
slackers.
He overlooked efficiencies such as dirty weapons and ammunition,
improperly safe weapons and grenade,
incorrect camouflage technique,
and the improper use of terrain,
not using natural cover to provide protection from small arms fire and without
an ass kicking company,
skipper or demanding NCO,
the soldiers habits became sloppier and sloppier,
carelessness ruled,
and of course the result was casualties that could have been prevented had the
lieutenant demanded the small things be done well.
My own experience has been that soldiers in combat will do only what's required
of them under week.
Nice guy leadership.
They'll try to get away with everything.
They can violate every basic rule in the at the same time because they know
they're wrong and that this behavior is placing their lives in jeopardy.
They'll respond to the demands of a positive ass kicking leader.
The result will be fewer casualties and developing respect for the leader who
cares enough roos men to make them do it right.
So that's important to think about.
This is not,
some people hear this kind of talk that I'm saying and all of a sudden they want
to turn into a super hyper aggressive person.
That's going berserk on everybody and trying to enforce every little,
every little order and every little discipline so hard that it,
it breaks the guys down and again,
that's why.
That's why I focused on that in the beginning.
That guy,
the first guy was super hardcore.
You could imagine that he would probably had people saluting him in the field
too.
He probably,
you know was,
hey,
you come to attention when I walk in the room and he was probably super hardcore
on stuff,
but it was stuff that didn't matter.
It wasn't the important stuff.
And so there's a fine line and he makes a great,
a great point here of pointing out that your troops,
they know what's right.
They know that you're there to help them.
They're going to take the easiest way possible.
But when you actually step up and lead and you explain to them why this is
important to you,
explain to them why this is why this is going to keep them alive and why it's
going to make the company more successful.
Then you will actually get traction and you will get loyalty.
Because when you keep these guys alive,
they become loyalty.
When you get your salesperson to to sell more and do more,
they're going to be loyal to you.
When you get your manufacturing team to produce more and do it faster there
because you pushed them a little bit harder,
they're going to respect you.
They're going to thank you.
Yup.
They're going to follow you.
Yeah.
That's uh,
that's real clear.
There were,
when you show them some results,
they'll,
you know,
they'll back to it.
Remember that movie,
the boiler room I brought up?
[inaudible] so he said he'd mentioned something along those lines where he's
like,
show them a small return and they'll on and on.
I forget what he said.
Like they'll give you their first born.
If something like that same thing,
you show them just a little bit of results like,
um,
like karate kid.
Remember karate kid when he's making them.
So yeah,
wax on,
wax off.
He's making him do that.
He's making them sand the floor,
paint the fence,
all this stuff.
He's mad,
but he starts off with a little bit of trust in him.
You know,
cause he,
he saw him,
you know,
he's a credit guy and then when he saw the results he was like,
Oh man,
Mr
Miyagi,
Mr Miyagi was real.
He's a real loyal to him.
Exactly.
Same thing.
Another SPEC to book.
Another serious shortcoming was the failure to teach leaders the importance of
supervision and the techniques of supervising the average small unit leader in
1969 to take for granted that is a will would be done and that he didn't have to
follow up.
You kind of follow up.
You got to inspect,
especially in the beginning.
Do you get the tone right to people understand what it's about,
what you're about as a leader?
Hmm.
The nature of combat and the Mekong Delta and how we operate in the hardcore
greatly extended this problem because small units normally operate on a wildly
decentralized basis in bitching terrain.
This restricted regular visits from the company in Battalion leaders prohibiting
more experienced senior officers and in Ceos from checking the platoons and
passing along tips of the trade without an experienced,
demanding leader.
These carelessly lead platoons were headed for a world of hurt the infrequency
of heavy combat compared to World War II or Korea in 1950 and 51 and the
prevalent,
all his cool attitude had a tendency to low soldiers and leaders into a false
sense of safety.
The more alertness and security went slack,
the greater the danger of an enemy attack became.
We played right into the enemy's hands as sun sue put it so well when the enemy
is weak attack.
So when World War II and Korea and you know,
50 and 51 in Korea,
they,
they were fighting so often that everyone knew they had to be squared away.
But here you might go some time.
You know,
nothing happened yesterday and nothing happened the day before and nothing's
happened for the last week.
Maybe I don't need to clean my weapon tonight.
Maybe I don't need to dig into a new fighting position.
Maybe I don't need to wear my body armor.
You do.
I had to inculcate the hardcore leaders with the burning need to keep their
people are alert and never let down their guard.
I had to instill in them the need to supervise the troops 24 hours a day to make
sure that the fighting positions were adequate.
Soldiers knew the mission,
the situation and where the LPS were.
Proper fields.
Sanitation was being practiced.
All battlefield debris was destroyed to deny the enemy a source of supply.
The troops were all sleeping,
undercover and protected from first round hits and fire support bases or camps.
Subordinate leaders were heads up and demanding that their men were alert and
tightly controlled and never ending list of the little things.
Rifle magazines,
cleaned weapons test fired grenades,
safe to lps and claymores out sectors of fire,
known salt tablets,
malaria pills,
jungle rot,
all monitored by the medics stand twos frequently conducted.
Okay.
I to get every leader to follow this adage,
the best fertilizer in the world is the bosses footsteps.
They make things grow.
So it's just,
I mean that that was just a giant list of all the little things and you know we
talked about this when we talked about Chechnya,
but some of the lessons learned there and how it all started to fall apart for
the Russians when the,
when the guys stopped shaving and this is the same thing that Hackworth is
saying.
You got to hold the line on the little things and I will tell you this,
you need to hold the line and you need to hold the line by explaining to the
troops why it's important.
You can't expect just to say,
Hey,
I told you to clean your weapon because if I'm not coming back for another week,
you know that you're going to clean it on the sixth day one time.
What happens if you get contacted on the fifth day and your weapons not working
now.
So I get explained to you,
hey look,
this is what's going on.
This is why it's important.
You can get contacted at any time.
You need to have your weapon ready to all time.
Most important thing to me.
Echo.
Look,
I want to take you home.
I want you to get home to your family and the only thing that's gonna keep you
alive in a firefight is this weapon you have right here.
And although we may go two days,
three days,
five days,
five weeks without getting in a firefight,
we don't know if it's going to happen in the next 30 seconds.
So you got to keep that weapon ready so you're ready at the moment of truth.
Do you understand what I'm talking about?
That's when you explain people why they're doing what they're doing.
Because now you say that's going to be back in the back of your head.
You're going to be thinking like,
you know what Jack told me,
I better get this thing cleaned.
This is important.
If I want to stay alive,
I need to keep this weapon clean.
Boom.
Guess what you're going to do?
Break out your field cleaning kit and you're going to get it done.
Yup.
Clean your room.
Why?
Because I said so.
I'm not going to work.
Yeah,
not going to work.
You know what it'll work for for two days.
You know,
maybe,
maybe I can do the bare minimum.
Yeah,
you might do the bare minimum slack.
Just do a little bit.
But if you explain to people why,
I mean in your room,
why you got to clean your room?
You know what?
I have guests coming over the our family.
It needs to be represented well.
If you're looking like a Slob,
and I have one of my clients come by and they see that my own kids can't be
disciplined enough to clean the room and you think they're going to hire me to
come straighten out their company?
No.
Wrong answer.
Brush your teeth.
That's a big one to get out.
The rug can get out the vacuum and get that thing cleaned.
When you till you get to go brush your teeth when they're young,
you know,
go brush your teeth.
Oh they don't want to price it.
Like why you teeth fall out?
Yeah.
You got to show them that the nasty dental pictures,
people that don't brush their teeth and see how that turns out for.
Yup.
And then you tell him,
you know,
that's what you're going to look like when they're five years old and they
didn't.
They turn into like a obsessive compulsive teeth.
Brushers so we use caution.
Use the medium level of uh,
of nasty looking teeth rot.
Just the medium level.
Don't find the crystal meth people that,
that have their teeth falling out.
Don't show him that it's a little too extreme.
They'll,
they'll brush their teeth too much.
Just find the cavity situations
or just tell him,
you know,
I dunno,
just tell him what that their teeth are going to rot out if the kids are visual
most of the time,
do you want your teeth throughout out?
They'll say,
no.
Yeah,
boom.
Maybe that could work.
We'll check out the dental hygienists here in a few years on the,
on the children's,
make a decision back to the book the principal was to learn so that we didn't
keep making the same mistakes again and again to do this,
we can't be the VC technique of ruthlessly examining every operation and
exercise.
That was a lot easier for the VC because they weren't as rigid about rank as we
were.
When rank rules,
people say yes or when they should say no fucking way.
I wanted to instill a particular cert of insubordination,
don't get me wrong,
when I told the men to do something,
I wanted it done,
but I also wanted an atmosphere where no one would be afraid to sound off and
speak the truth.
This is the dichotomy.
This is the balance you don't want,
and even Hackworth,
as strict as he was and he wanted everyone to do all these,
we'll keep all these small things.
He wanted them to have a rebellious snus in them to say,
you know what?
Heck out of it.
We're doing this wrong,
or you know what hack?
I think that's the wrong way to do.
Or you know what hack?
I think you should have pushed us over there or left us back over here or we're
not going to do this.
It's stupid.
That's what he wants.
And that's something that a lot of military people have a hard time with because
they get offended by someone of junior rank stepping up to them and saying,
Hey boss,
this is wrong and you can't have that attitude.
You've got to welcome and encourage people to check you and test you and
question you.
That's what you want.
Yeah.
That's when they take it personal.
Oh yeah.
That's pretty much it.
And they take your person.
Yeah,
like he stepped to me.
He didn't step to like the order or the,
you know,
the little scenario that I painted,
he's east up to me with it.
Unacceptable.
Yo,
check your ego back to the book.
After every operation,
we'd sit down at the squad platoon and company level and work up a detailed
critique that spared no harsh words.
It was,
Tom,
you had your machine gun in the wrong firing position.
Bill.
You're right.
You're,
you triggered the ambush early.
Hank,
you're go to hell.
Plants sucked.
War is so simple.
Yet the military school system tries to make it so damn complicated.
Probably they need to propagate a mystique in order to protect their turf,
but the bare bones bottom line to winning in battle is simply to sneak up on
your opponent and belt the shit out of him from behind as hard and quickly as
you can before he figures out you're in the neighborhood and then beat it the
hell out of there.
We should train our small units in,
not in the classroom,
but in the Bush where warriors can be taught the gut fundamentals of infantry
combat.
Raw Mill said the best form of welfare for the troops is first class training
for this saves unnecessary casualties.
Class training means hard work and sacrifice.
General Bruce Clark's adage,
the more we sweat all know training field,
the less we bleed on the battlefield is one of followed.
Ever since I was a teenager and I'm convinced it keeps the casualty list short.
Everybody knows those two.
Does everybody follow him?
Not always.
You see it with the military,
with police,
with fire,
with salespeople.
Are you putting your troops to realistic training that's hard and making them
sweat and making them think,
are you doing that?
You need to know
cadets and new leaders who show ineptitude and little leadership ability such as
that walking atrocity,
Lieutenant William Calley of the my Lai massacre infamy should be immediately
eliminated.
And I left this in here because this is an important port.
If you W uh,
William Calley,
he's a guy that did horrible massacre at my light in Vietnam,
murdered a bunch of civilians.
Kelly was recycled three times at infantry,
ocs after being found wanting in leadership before finally being commissioned in
order to show a low attrition rate to higher headquarters.
A bad mistake with big consequences.
They had a guy they knew he was a weak leader,
he was showing weak leadership in his position going through officer candidate
school.
And what do they do?
They recycle them three times.
So we failed three times.
They keep pushing them through,
keep pushing through,
keep pushing through.
They finally makes it through.
He goes out and commits a horrible atrocity cause he's a weak leader.
Hmm,
okay.
You cannot lower the standards
more than any major enemy victory.
The shame and horror of my lay because the American people to withdraw their
support from the war effort.
Once they saw what Kelly had wrought,
they said enough is enough.
Okay.
In small unit leaders confidence like fear is contagious.
Troopers can feel it,
see it and smell it and it will rub off on shoulders from a platoon to a
division as quickly as a good rumor rumbles out of the latrine.
Confidence produces courage.
Most leaders or soldiers aren't born with a double basic load of guts.
The average leaders are scared as the next guy in their first or 100 firefight.
But if they are confident that they're tactically proficient,
that their units squared away.
Team motivated by a strong sense of duty to accomplish the mission,
the courage that's needed to do what many will view as impossible will be.
Their mouth's may go dry.
Guts may churn and handshake,
but when the slug starts snapping,
that prepared leader will be as cool.
On the outside,
it's Clint Eastwood and no one will know he's really scared out of his brain.
Okay.
So if you're going into combat and you've never been there,
you're in a leadership position or not,
you're nervous.
It's okay.
No big deal.
Be Nervous.
Do your job.
Besides being one hell of a job.
Leading men into battle is the ultimate responsibility on the battlefield.
Decisions such as go left or go right or go straight ahead or made in a split
second and right or wrong,
good or bad.
People get killed.
Leaders carry the scars of those decisions for the rest of their lives.
Later battle scenes play back deep into the night like an old movie.
Why didn't I wait?
Why didn't that bring in more fire?
Why didn't I go myself?
Why didn't I go to the left?
Questions that will haunt the blooded combat leader until he's six feet under
good preparation training.
Knowing your job and attention to detail.
We'll keep the nightmares and any casualties to a minimum.
To be a combat leader in the profession of arms is one of the most noble,
most deadly jobs going.
It's rough and tough and its rewards are few.
But if at the end of the day the troops say he's a good man as opposed to he was
a nice guy,
that's pretty much as good as it gets.
And I know that's something that
something that I definitely felt
okay
through my whole career,
especially once the war started was I always felt like everything I need to do,
everything I can to have these guys ready,
everything I can to have these guys ready.
And when I was in charge of training and I was sending bill tunes overseas,
I felt the same way.
This training is what they are relying on to keep them alive.
And do you sit there and look back and say,
oh well you know,
why didn't I wait?
Why it bring more fire?
Why didn't it go myself?
Why didn't I go to the left?
All those questions.
Yeah,
you're going to have those questions.
But those questions are quieter.
If you know that you did everything you can to prepare the guys for the
situations that they're going into
this book.
Obviously like,
like most of the books we bring on here,
I mean there's just so many lessons to learn,
so much knowledge to gain.
And
I mean,
I wish,
I wish I would have learned them.
And you know,
I think part of it,
and you,
you've talked about this the other day,
you were talking about how when you know Jujitsu,
if you know Jujitsu,
then you can,
you have a certain context that you can learn Jujitsu.
So if you know Jujitsu already,
you can make sense out of things.
Like you can watch a youtube video or you can read a book and you can look at
it,
you can say,
oh,
okay,
I,
I can do that.
Or you can go,
you can apply it.
Yeah.
But if you have no experience,
would you Jitsu,
it's very difficult just to look at a youtube.
You can do it,
but it's gonna take a lot longer because you don't have the context of the
moves.
And so you're going to need somebody to show you.
You're going to need to experience it yourself so that you can understand it in.
And that's one of the things that I kind of think
of why people like this podcast and had sort of like what I have to offer is
I've seen a lot of these things from a leadership perspective,
from being simple tunes myself from growing up in the teams and then going into
combat and then training platoons and then going into the corporate world and
seeing what leadership is like.
There are in the context of that.
And I think,
I think one of the reasons that people like this is because I can just sort of
help them put these things into context a little bit better and then they can
take them and put them into context in their own lives.
But it's nice to have that little bit of help,
but you can do it yourself.
Everybody has been led,
you've been led by people.
Most people are,
have been in some kind of a leadership position,
even if they're in charge of one other person or five other people or a hundred
other people,
but you've either led or you're being led and so you do have the contexts to put
these things in,
but you just have to first of all,
do the work,
get the books out,
open them and read them.
And then when you read them,
try and read them from a perspective of balancing or,
or not balancing,
but try and read them from the perspective of overlaying your own experiences on
top of them.
And that will,
that's what I do.
I'm trying to kind of explain my process and what my process has been over the
past 20 years.
When I see something,
I see a leadership situation,
I overlay my own experiences on top of it and compare and contrast to it so that
way I can learn something from it.
I just don't sit there and blindly watch a youtube video about Jujitsu without
putting context over it.
Right?
So that's what you got to do with leadership in my opinion.
So great book.
Steal my soldiers,
our hearts by Colonel David Hackworth.
And
I think we can roll on two questions before we get it all into the interwebs and
the questions they're in.
Why don't you talk about how the interwebs can actually support this podcast?
Cheap Ball,
Huh?
Okay.
Uh,
where's he can can support this podcast and at the same time support yourself,
which is Justin just as important in my opinion.
Supplementation on it.
Supplements are the,
are the best ones by far.
The only ones I take.
Yeah.
Only ones I take.
Only one did you take,
I recommend Alpha brain.
I'm taking some Alpha brain right this second.
There you go.
Proof is in the pudding.
Alpha,
Braden d,
The instant,
instant,
right.
Fast results are better than slow results.
No,
but sometimes you need delayed results for,
you know,
anyway.
Um,
where are your bars as well?
I would recommend do yourself that favor big favor.
Um,
you can get 10% off half a box of warrior bars in your house because when you're
hungry and you don't want to eat something junk,
he just opened up a worry bar and you're basically eating a snickers bar.
It's as good as a snickers bar,
if not better.
And it's got protein in it.
Yeah.
It's good for you.
It's different though.
It's different than a snickers bar.
It's not a dessert.
Oh,
that's not,
this is not disgustingly sweet.
Sweet though.
Yeah,
but it's like a meal suite.
You know how I can eat like a teriyaki chicken?
How that's sweet.
Yeah,
but it's,
it's good alliance.
Well,
I'll tell you what you do.
You know,
he's the EEC.
He just keep a box of where you are on.
It has this thing called stay on it and it's like,
uh,
you know,
they're recurring with a warrior bars.
That's a good call.
That's a good car.
Did you say on att.com/jocko?
Yeah.
For the day.
For the 10% off.
Because why pay 0% off when you can pay to pay 10 with 10% off the price anyway.
[inaudible]
dot com slash Jocko also,
another way you can support this podcast is by at times when you're about to do
amazon.com shopping,
go to Jocko podcast.com first click on the Amazon link,
then go to Amazon and then do some shopping.
Then Amazon will give us like a little percentage,
like a referral fee.
So when you buy what you actually need and you support the podcast.
Yeah,
and also at [inaudible] dot com there's an Amazon link.
So boom.
Yeah,
by what you are going to buy anyway.
Uh,
just click through there first.
You can support that way.
And of course
I would say arguably the best way.
Nah,
that's not the best way,
but a really good way to support this podcast is going to Jocko store.com and
get a shirt or two or a coffee mug or a bumper sticker
if you'd like.
Yup.
There you go.
Boom.
Abort in one of those ways to appreciate the ceiling.
Get
yes,
very much so.
Okay.
Question number one,
how do you relate between sop,
which is standard operating procedures and Jujitsu training?
Could you say that the basics and fundamentals are the sop of grappling or
something like drilling your specific game?
Well,
so yeah,
this is uh,
this is a pretty actually an obvious question,
right?
The standard operating procedures and when you're talking about those with me,
yes,
they exist in business.
Yes,
they exist in companies.
The way companies handle situations for me,
I'm just going to bring it back to my roots.
In the military you have standard operating procedures for things,
your standard operating procedures.
For many of the things that you do as a unit or as a team,
you have the standard way of doing them.
And what's good is you drill and just like Hackworth just talked about this,
you drill those standard operating procedures on you train.
He's talking about how you train,
you train this,
you train that,
you train the other thing and you keep training until he says they're going to
roll out of bed in her and be able to react to a combat,
uh,
to uh,
to an ambush that's you react with standard operating procedures.
So how do you get good at them?
You train them and you drill them.
Now they're same thing exists inside of grappling.
Someone starts to mount you.
You have a standard operating procedures to begin to escape them out.
Someone starts passing the guard.
You have or gets past the guard.
You have a standard operating procedure of the procedure that you're going to
take to get out of there.
You're gonna get the under rock.
You're going to come up to a single,
you know,
if someone mounts,
you're going to you,
you immediately put your elbows in tight,
maybe try and shift her weight a little bit,
shift their weight a little bit,
get their knee light,
you're going to try and put them in back into half guard.
So these are all little state.
If someone starts to arm lock you,
what are you going to your put your weight down on them.
If they're trying to army locking from the guard,
you're going to have standard operating procedures.
Just like when you're on the battlefield,
you want your team to have standard operating procedures.
Definitely in grappling,
you're going to have standard operating procedures as well that you're going to
use.
Now,
the way you get there is by doing repetition.
That's through drilling,
but in both situations,
you don't want to have people so strict in drilling that they lose the ability
to think you.
If you have a person that all they ever do is drill in Jujitsu,
they actually won't be able to apply it in real life.
When someone is trying to resist or when the,
the technique isn't exactly what they expected or it's with a person that has a
different body size than what you're used to dealing with.
You have to
encourage and you have to train for creativity and adaptation.
Again,
something that the military can sometimes overlook.
Jujitsu people can sometimes overlook it.
You have to train for creativity and adaptation.
So if you're going to drill,
don't just drill the way you think it's going to be drilled,
a strange variations that it could possibly be.
You know you're,
what else is a good way to do this?
You fight using an imposed restrictions on yourself.
So Hey,
the only thing I'm going to submit you in is a Omoplata.
So even if the guillotines wide open,
I've got to give that up and throw in a little pot on you.
It's going to make me,
it's going to force me to be creative to bring about the different position
that's not so obvious.
Rolling with different people.
Better than you,
worse than you.
The same as you,
bigger than you,
or smaller than you.
Taller than you.
Shorter than you.
Every different variation.
When you're working standard operating procedures in the field,
guess what?
You want to put yourselves in different positions.
Mix the squat up.
Mix The platoon up,
put guys in different locations.
Then you want to get contacted.
You know what?
Contact Front,
contact,
left contact,
right,
contact rare.
Those are the basics.
Guess where you're actually getting your contacted from,
you're going to get contacted from the right rear and at the same time another
guy over on the left a little bit.
So that's what you want to Joe.
You want to get that creativity working because things are not going to go as
you expect them to go.
So yes,
standard operating procedures are important in anything that you do in a
business.
But in a business like you have a,
again,
we've been talking about sales today,
you have a,
you have a standard thing that customers are going to say when they call you and
you can drill through all the standard responses that you're going to give them,
but you also have to drill your people against a customer that you have no idea
that's acting crazy or that has a point that you've never dealt with before.
You know any of those responses.
That's what you want to deal with your,
you're in any business,
things are not always going to go perfect the way you want them to go.
So you got to drill your leadership so they can handle the adaptations that they
can be creative and still figure out solutions.
So it seems like get good at the sop stuff.
Like I know in Jujitsu you just get really good at it at the sop stuff,
but instead of practicing sop in Jujitsu,
just be mindful of of Sop re a lot all the time.
Be Mindful of it.
Yeah,
and I had a guy on Twitter ask the other day,
you know,
hey,
I'm,
I'm in the basic,
I can't make it to the beginners classes,
so I'm only in the advanced classes and now we're not drilling anything.
I'm not making progress.
And he's saying,
should I keep training
brother?
Keep training.
Definitely keep training.
But I think more important is just you don't have to,
you can,
you can find the time to Joel and your own.
I mean that's a mountain scape.
Look it up on Google,
look it up on Youtube,
see the mount escape.
If that's a basic that you want to work on and then grab your girlfriend and
say,
here is shit on me like this.
I'm going to do some movements with my hips.
It might seem awkward at first,
but I'm going to do it anyways,
honey,
and then do it.
That's drilling,
you know?
Or once you get to class,
show up to class or stay class a little bit later.
Spend 10 minutes,
Jill and amount of scape 10 spend five minutes doing an arm lock.
Such a how many on walks can you do in five minutes?
I mean,
you can do enough to drill.
Trust me,
you don't need to drill for half an hour.
So just know the movements,
learned to movements and then just go in and do a little bit of drilling and
you'll get there.
But even if you didn't do that and you just rolled and you took the advanced
class and you learn the advanced moves,
eventually you're going to figure out the other stuff too.
It's,
it's like being immersed in a language,
you know?
Just because you went and got immersed in a kindergarten class doesn't mean you
would learn faster than if you got immersed in a,
in a real life college,
you know,
or open just normal life situation.
Yeah,
yeah,
that's true.
So if you get good at these standard operating procedures and you can remind
them all the time and at the same time like how you were saying you exercise
your creativity,
then you can,
you can stick to them.
But at the same time you can know when to break the rules so to speak.
You know?
Well Dean Dean is really good with some of the basic movements,
you know,
like he's really,
really good in them and he can almost forced them.
Whereas Jeffy Glover,
he's really good at the basics too,
but he,
he's more in my mind,
he's more apt to do something creative.
Whereas Dean is like so good with the fundamentals that he doesn't even have to
be creative sometimes.
Of course he is also very creative.
That's why he's uh,
you know,
done so well in the world.
But both those guys have crazy,
I mean any dentist,
Dean and Jeff,
but any really good Jujitsu player is going to be awesome at the basics and then
they're going to be creative.
That's what makes a Jujitsu champion.
Yup.
I actually,
Jeff has this,
this drill that he,
he got crazy drills.
He just thought it up on the spot too.
It seemed like he did,
but I don't know.
But it's,
it's basically you,
he'll be,
he'll be like,
he'll,
he'll yell out of position.
Then you've got to get to that position.
Kind of the,
not the fastest,
like oh the quickest you can do it physically it's more like the,
the,
with the least steps,
you know?
So if you're like,
hey,
half guard now do a knee bar now do,
or he'll say a submission,
he'll say a,
I'm a different position and it'd be like half guard now.
Take us back now.
You know?
And you have to like,
well how do I take you guys back from half guard?
And you have to kind of,
you know,
so it exercises not only your creativity but thinking fast with this,
you know.
So after a while you start to be like,
oh,
I didn't know there was a knee bar from here with only like two steps,
you know,
that kind of thing.
And I was like,
Dang,
I really like that drill.
And he was like,
Hey,
yeah,
and dean,
one Dean's trolls.
Dean,
we'll have,
Dean does this same thing.
He'll just call out,
but he'll call out like a leg.
He does it with me with leg positions.
Yeah.
He'll be like,
you know,
for 11 didn't outside then Cochrane Aiko and he'll just go through and we'll
just sit there and do them.
Right.
And what's cool about it too is you get to learn like little defenses.
Oh yeah,
yeah.
Oh,
so you're doing it depending,
not,
not hardcore defense,
but you're making that little adjusting,
being mindful.
Yes.
So yes,
slps learn them drill,
but be creative.
Yeah.
Yeah man,
it seems like that's a 100% translation right there.
Like you know that kind of like hundred bro and go to the sop when in doubt,
if you're in someone's garden,
he's a wild,
it's like go to sop,
mind your base,
mind,
your posture,
mind your,
your elbows or whatever.
There's like all these things that went into it.
You do it.
It is a 100% translation.
Yeah,
it's 100% yeah.
That's crazy.
Next question Jocko.
When does asking for input up and down the chain of command as discussed in
episode 26 hinder the leader's ability to make timely decisions,
especially when gaining the initiative is critical.
So yeah,
this is a question that I asked and I got an answer for you Tj who asked the
question when you are you okay?
So the situation is a little bit different.
If you're in an administrative situation or you're on a planning situation,
meaning neither one of those are restricted by time.
Then of course get the input and by getting the input of course your first of
all,
your plan becomes better because you're getting input from people,
you have more brains working on it.
You also,
when you get input,
you're building a little bit of a relationship.
You're building relationship,
the relationship,
what,
what?
Our relationships are based on trust and so trust is a requirement inside of
leadership.
So
that's what you want to do.
If you have the time and it's administrative scenario or you got the time to
plan,
then just go ahead and take the time to plant,
take the time to get the input.
Now there are situations where you don't have time to discuss or debate a
decision and there's,
you know,
or times where maybe you have time,
but it's going to affect or impact the ability to make an immediate execution,
which is what oftentimes you're looking for.
You want to gain the initiative and sometimes gaining the initiative takes
precedence over gaining consensus from everybody and,
and it takes precedence over coming up with the best possible plan cause we want
to do the best possible plan,
but sometimes fast action is going to take precedence over that.
And,
and patents said something along the lines of a good plan executed now is better
than a perfect plan executed sometime next week.
So what happens is in those situations,
yeah,
you're going to have to make the call,
you're going to have to be decisive.
You're going to have to make the decision.
And because you've built trust with your team,
then when you do need to make that call,
it won't be that big of a deal and people will execute it.
Now,
I've told this,
I've said this before,
you know,
Lafe and I were having a conversation with,
with some of our clients and,
and as they were kind of talking about the same thing about,
you know,
giving people orders and they're not listening and what do you do?
And,
and,
and I asked leaf in the middle of thing,
I said,
hey,
leave,
how many times did I tell you,
hey leaf,
this is a command.
I'm telling you to do it.
I'm ordering you because you work for me.
Do it now.
And Lafe was like zero times.
Now that being said,
that being said,
although I never in an administrative warrant,
a planning situation ever said late,
you will do this now I'm ordering you because I am the senior man and the
situation
in tactical situations where we were in the field and we had to do things,
we had to make things happen quickly.
I definitely said things to him and said,
hey,
go do this now.
Like I would said,
you know,
take that building down over there.
Hey,
move the Humvees over here or whatever.
And he would do it because he knew we didn't have time to discuss it.
Now what's interesting about that is it didn't just,
it wasn't just me that was telling Lafe sometimes Lafe was saying to me,
Jocko,
get the Humvees moved over here,
or Jocko,
you need to get the element up on that high ground over there.
And you know what?
We had trust,
we had a relationship and I did it.
Even though I was senior to him.
We didn't care who was senior to who.
That wasn't the important thing.
He saw something.
He was making a tactical decision.
I knew he wouldn't be telling me to do something unless he needed to have it
happen.
Right?
So if he told me,
hey,
move the vehicles down the road,
I'd be like,
Roger Moving.
And,
and that doesn't mean that we're,
if you take us to a situation where we have the time to debate,
like he would call me up and say,
Hey Jocko,
I think it might be a good idea to push the vehicles down the road.
Oh,
why?
What's going on?
Well,
we're starting to see some movement out in the hinterland over there.
Okay,
got it.
I'm going to track it.
I'm going to push two vehicles down there.
Cool.
Right?
That's a normal conversation.
But if all of sudden there was gunfire and life was like pushed the vehicles
down the road to the north,
I'd say doing it.
You know what I mean?
So there are definitely times where you don't want to sit there and sit around
and debate and figure out what the best plan is that at the time where the
leader or the follower or the person who has the most vision of the situation,
it needs to make a call and make it happen.
So again,
the more the better relationship you have,
the easier this is going to be.
Cause you're going to have that little mental unification of the commander's
intent and of the task and purpose.
And you're going to,
you're going to be able to be thinking along the same path.
And when you're doing that,
everything gets a lot a hell of a lot easier.
So when you got the time to take the input,
take the input,
have the debate,
have the discussion that builds the relationships so that when it comes time to
be decisive and give a command and you can give it and people react up and down
the chain of command without a bunch of hesitation and you can go back in later
and say,
hey,
here's what I was talking about,
here's why we needed to do this.
Nope,
that's it.
And then that trust is so critical.
Yeah.
Like so are you saying build that relationship or whatever.
You know,
even at the time where it seems valuable shirt trust,
but it's times like this where that trust is going to shine even more.
You know,
when you can just say do it.
You don't even have to say why didn't do it cause you just know.
You know it's a good reason.
You know?
You know,
while we're on this subject,
I will tell you this as well because the more time you spent,
if you,
if I was always giving orders to everyone and not actually discussing,
I was just ordering everyone to do everything all the time.
You're,
you're burning up your leadership capital.
Like when I,
we,
you know,
when we're,
when we're out in the field and when I was out in the field with a bill tunes,
I sell them,
gave an order over the radio because I wanted my guys to lead.
When I did say something,
that guys would just do it because it was me.
And they knew that if I was saying it was something had to be done,
right.
So if I said,
hey,
everyone getting building fort 34 now,
Gosh,
to be okay,
we're going to it for everyone,
we'll get there.
Right?
Whereas if I was trying to give orders the whole time on every operation,
on every little thing and every little detail,
eventually you're just there.
What is it,
the boy that cried wolf and you want to give every order and people stop
listening to you.
Yeah.
Even though we're in the military and even though there's a chain of command and
even though they're supposed to listen to me,
you abused that thing and people will stop listening to you.
The less you,
the,
the more you talk,
the less people listen and the less you talk,
the more people listen.
So I reserved my actual directives in the field to be the most important things
that I needed.
And if I didn't have to say it,
I wouldn't,
I would let my troopers lead,
let my leaders,
my subordinate leadership lead.
I wanted them to
quality,
not quantity.
Affirmative.
Next question.
Many vets are getting out of the military and going back to college,
myself included or to college for the first time.
What advice do you have?
I like how you're doing sort of like the newscasters thing when you get done
with the question,
keeping it too.
I liked that.
So you're going to college for the either back to college.
You're had been in the military.
Okay.
Number one out of the gate.
Crush it.
That's what you should do in college.
You should crush it.
You should study hard and you should crush it.
Now,
in order to do that,
you got to get a mindset because guess what?
You're going to think when you get out of the military.
You'd be like,
oh,
this is no big deal and all of this does.
This.
Doesn't matter.
You can be like,
Hey,
I was in,
I was in Iraq eight months ago,
or I was in Afghanistan six months ago and now you're sitting here,
tell me to read a book and write down words on a piece of paper.
This doesn't matter.
That's an easy,
that's an easy path to go down.
It's pretty easy said.
You know why?
Because it's actually true and what you did in combat has more gravity and more
consequence than anything you're going to do in college,
and if you want to go down that path and be,
this stuff doesn't matter.
This isn't important compared to what I've done,
so I'm going to blow it off.
That's a path you can go down if you want to.
I don't recommend it.
What I recommend you doing is straight up crushing college.
That's what I meant.
Recommend you doing?
How do you do that?
Because everybody,
if you make that decision that you want to crush it,
if you want to make the decision that you're going to prove to people that,
you know what?
Yeah,
I was overseas,
I was in combat.
Now I'm coming back and your little games that you're playing,
I'm going to beat you in your own games.
So how do you do that?
Number one,
do the reading that you get assigned to do the assignments that you get tasked
with.
Do everything.
Let that be your new job.
These silly little games that they're putting.
Let that be your job.
Just like I was talking about ocs when I went to ocs,
I made that like a game for me that I was going to win.
So do that with college and then on top of that,
make it a game.
Yes,
but on top of that as a deeper commander's intent,
make it that you're going to not just do well there as a game,
but you're going to do well so you can get smarter.
So you can really actually learn information that's going to make you a better
person and give you better
ability to dominate in the world of,
that's what you should be doing in college.
Now,
these kids that you're going to be going to college with,
they're not going to have this attitude.
They're going to be,
you know,
hey,
what do I need to do to get by?
What's Sally doing tonight?
I'm more concerned about that than I am about going out dominating this course
so that I can get an a so that I have knowledge so I can go and crush some,
some vocation later on in life.
So don't just do it as a game.
You gotta play the game a little bit.
I mean,
you've got to go.
For me,
I get the game mentality going,
but I'm,
the game mentality is a rooted in something deeper and what it's rooted,
it is gaining knowledge to be smarter and better as a human.
Now a couple things about college and the actual tactics,
techniques and procedures to dominate.
Because when I went to college,
I did dominate and when I went to high school,
I did not dominate,
went on to high school.
I didn't care about high school.
I was like,
whatever,
I've waiting,
can I go in the military?
Like can I go now?
So,
but when I went to college,
I had a new attitude,
which was,
I'm going to dominate.
I'm an almond,
a battle against these people here,
I'm going to meet them.
So there's some of the things that are important.
Number one,
college is all about time management.
Getting ahead of the curve because it's so easy.
That's what happens with kids in college.
That's why they don't do well because for the first time there's no one tracking
them.
No one's imposing discipline on them.
You have to have in order to do well in college,
you have to have self discipline because no one's going to tell you to start
that paper that's doing six weeks.
No one's going to tell you to start it tomorrow.
You can just blow it off.
You can blow it off for five and a half weeks and then you've got to write a 30
page paper in two days and it's going to,
it's not going to be quality.
No one's going to ask do you,
have you done your homework before dinner?
That's right.
So you need to get the time management going.
You need to get a discipline time management schedule.
You need to get ahead of the curve as early as possible.
Right.
You know when you want to ruin a paper's due,
a 30 page paper due,
you need to write it in chunks and it makes it so easy.
I mean it was a joke when I was going to college,
I would have my papers completely done like a week out,
like a week out.
I would be done with a 30 page paper and then I would just be reviewing it and
getting it all completely dialed and I'd turn it in two days early and then move
on to the next one.
Same thing with studying.
You don't want to study you.
You do want to study hard right before the day of the test,
but you want to have knowledge already absorbed in there so you wanna,
you wanna study leading up to that.
When you do reading that I talked about highlight,
breakout,
the highlighters.
That's what I do in all these books that were hammering through right now,
we don't always,
I always send out pictures.
Some,
they're all highlighted and marked up.
That's how I'm getting the good information out of them.
So highlight and then another little trick is to make the flashcards I used to
highlight and then I would make flashcards about what I highlighted.
Turn everything into a question and then you go through the flashcards and
you're going to,
you're going to memorize stuff.
Hmm.
Oh,
here's the big one.
This is really obvious,
but guess what?
People don't ask questions.
Ask questions.
I used to raise my hand.
I would sit in the front row.
First of all in college,
I sat in the front row.
I was 20 what was I 20 I think it was 27 or 28 years old.
Going to college,
I would sit in the front row in the little desk and I looked like Arnold
Schwarzenegger and like a Little Kid's desk.
Then I'd raise my hand all the way up like all the way up over my head and
they'd be looking at me,
you know,
cause in college they kind of stopped raising their hand.
But I did it anyways just to be be you just to be,
just to do it.
So I'd raise my hand.
But you ask questions cause guess what?
The college kids,
they don't ask questions and,
and guess what?
Adults don't ask questions,
why don't ask questions cause they got an equal.
They don't want to look stupid.
I don't care.
I'm here to win.
Exactly.
Oh you don't think I'm smart?
Let's check out the GPA homeboy.
You know what I'm saying?
So ask questions if I need and ask questions.
As soon as that,
as soon as the knowledge,
as soon as the understanding train starts to get derailed a little bit,
ask the question right then maybe give it,
maybe give it a minute to see if you can get it back on track by yourself.
But the minute you realize you're not understanding,
raise your hand and say,
Hey,
you know what teacher,
I don't understand that.
Can you reexplain that?
Because I'm not understanding.
Yeah,
you don't want to miss that train.
I don't want to miss the train.
You don't want it to go too far off course and then you're just lost.
You know?
So when you feel it coming off,
try and catch up real quick cause you,
we'll take a look and then just raise your hand.
Put your hand all the way up in the air.
Sit in the front row,
put your hand all the way up in the air and look at the teacher with,
with a dead serious face.
And they're going to look at you all nervous and be like,
yes,
that's the only one.
I went to college,
they called me John Because,
because that's what the attendance sheet said,
because my real name is John and that's what the attendance sheet said.
And so they'd,
yeah,
I'd be sitting there and they'd say,
yes,
John.
And I'd say,
yeah,
I don't understand that.
Could you reexplain it please?
Hey,
when they called you John,
did that fuel the fire?
No,
not at all.
It doesn't matter to me,
but it's the only time,
cause I didn't know these people because normally if I'm going to work with
someone,
when I introduced myself,
I'd be like,
Hey,
my name is [inaudible].
Cause that's what everyone always calls me.
But these people would call my name and the tenants and I didn't want to have
this,
you know,
adversarial relationship.
Oh yes,
John.
That's me.
The other thing is,
you know,
do some psychological warfare.
You know,
I would line up my pencils.
I do it on the podcast.
You boy right here,
I lied up pencils.
It's,
uh,
it's,
it's also getting into character.
Right?
You're priming.
Priming myself,
I'm looking at the teacher like I am so ready to take notes that if I have a
downed pencil it will not cost me a single letter.
I'll be back in the game.
All your contingency.
Yeah,
contingency passes a standing by it and then so they sit in the front row,
line up your pencils,
have you know,
books ready,
personally challenged the teacher you want it to.
You want your personal challenge to be the pole,
every piece of knowledge out of them and then go beyond what they know.
I was,
I was competing with the teachers.
I was trying to learn more than they actually knew.
And then they bring their little tests are a little exams you and you're just
crushed them and smash them.
Now the,
the thing you've gotta be careful of here is this can get political,
this can get political.
And if you start being offensive with the way you act,
if you start to rubbing it in their face,
then guess what?
That can affect your grade.
And part of the game here is to get a good grade.
So you actually,
it's a time for you to start building your relationship,
building skills,
time to start building your leadership skills because you're gonna start
manipulating the teacher,
right?
You want to make them think that you're actually super interested in no stupid
crap class that they're teaching.
I want them to think that not all.
Now,
some classes you're gonna love and they're going to,
you're going to learn a lot from like if you're into English and you get to take
advanced grammar and syntax,
you're going to be sitting in there like,
yes,
this is rocks,
but there's gonna be some classes you don't want to take.
But you've got to get in there and make your teacher think that you're super
interested in,
super fired up to learn that thing and that you're not just interested in the
grade,
but at the same time they got to know that grades important to you do.
So you want to get along with them and again,
go into college and if you're a veteran,
you're representing all of us out there.
So you should be going in there and just smashing college.
And that way we have a better reputation,
not just for being tough on the battlefield,
but for being smart and academically sound as well.
Yeah.
And,
and in a way,
if you go to college later,
you kind of in in this weird way have an advantage.
Oh,
not even a weird way.
You straight up having an advantage.
Yeah.
Especially after you've been in the military.
Film much van.
Cause you've got the discipline.
Yeah.
But the only thing that'll screw you is if you have the discipline,
but you don't apply it because you think all this doesn't matter.
This is nothing compared to combat.
That's what I started off by addressing.
This is important.
You just have to make an important yeah.
It because you pay for college and this is the part that I think,
well I know I just couldn't connect the dots on this.
Even no matter how many people said,
I just couldn't connect the dots that you're going to,
it's worth,
you know,
this is,
it's all up to you.
These people are here to give you an education and all this stuff.
You can do whatever you want to do.
You don't even have to choose a major right away.
You can do whatever you want to do,
you're going to have an educated occasion.
They do it and then to me it just didn't register.
It just seemed like the same thing as high school except no one was monitoring
your grades and there was a way a lot more going on.
So really it was the same thing.
You play football,
you're one of the cool kids,
the cool parties on the,
you know and you,
but the different thing which was better than high school is you had your own
place to stay.
Other people were staying around you that were your peers that were hanging out
and didn't have to go to bed at a certain time.
So if you're not that into grades and stuff in high school and you don't see
that clearly,
like how you would,
if you're like 27 28 years old,
coming back and seeing like the real value of education and college and stuff,
all that's going to look like is just one big party.
Then maybe have some class or something going on during the day,
I don't know.
And then the,
and you make your own schedule.
You're like,
hey,
choose this class at this time and this side.
And you're like,
you almost,
it's almost like
one of the biggest tests in college is if you can pass everything that you just
talked about.
Yeah.
If you can go and you can get the discipline,
you can get the time management,
you can go to the classes,
you can study this stuff.
That's one of the tests in college.
And military personnel shouldn't fail that test.
The only reason that I'm telling you no,
no,
no.
I'm sure there's all the reasons,
but definitely the,
the fact that they're not taking it seriously is what's going to cost like what
they've been through.
It's like way more impact,
more practice.
And you know what,
that's true.
But again,
we're not trying to,
we want to win.
You know,
I want you,
if you're a veteran,
your listeners,
I want you to dominate.
And it shouldn't even be fair.
I mean,
honestly,
when I was going to college,
it wasn't even fair.
I mean,
because I was just ahead,
I was just working,
I was concentrating,
I was focused and I was making myself focus.
Yeah.
And yeah,
so that's what you gotta do.
Do
I remember I had this and you know what you h there's like,
you know,
there's,
there's a smaller classes in this lecture classes.
So I remember in the lecture class who's like criminology or something that
happened to be taking and there was this guy from,
he was basically you except a real,
like more nerdy type guy.
And he'd be right in the front,
not like just in the front row,
right here in front of the teacher.
And there's like a projector thing that he'd kind of,
he's right next to that.
And Man,
this guy,
if he had a question,
boom,
he was on it,
he would monopolize the whole class.
You didn't care.
And I'm in there like,
man,
this guy is motivated.
I don't know why,
because this is major,
but he's not ashamed or nothing.
And so one day we had these,
um,
like speeches,
like you have to like read up on something and then present.
Yeah.
I don't remember.
I think I did it.
Maybe I did it.
I don't know.
I forget,
but I remember when it was his turn into the auditorium.
So you have a little mic,
you know a teacher out of Mike,
he gives you the Mikey say your speech so that this,
it's this guy's turned to go up and the teacher gives them a my,
he's like,
I don't need that.
It goes,
can you guys hear me in the back?
And I was like,
damn,
this guy knows,
you know,
he's into this.
He gives his speech and he,
he might as well have been the teacher,
this guy,
and he was an older guy.
He was maybe like,
you know,
I'm like 18 years old.
It's guys like probably 25 or so.
He was a veteran,
actual or maybe men.
It wouldn't surprise me because this guy was there and he was there to win.
And thinking as an older guy,
man,
I wish I just had that attitude because I had the capability man,
the classes that I liked,
like I had,
I took a musculoskeletal anatomy class and I got an a and that one,
I think I got like 97% and I was pissed like last 3% but it's so thinking like
really my whole just outlook on that class,
like I was there,
but it was a little bit different than your,
I'll straight up interested in it.
No.
And there was classes and I was straight up interested in too.
You know?
And those classes are easier to get through because you like them,
you enjoy them.
Yeah.
But man,
that attitude of like,
I'm going,
I'm gonna win.
Like whatever.
Like the test was like this almost a way to just show off how powerful I am,
this little thing.
And then boom,
that was my attitude.
You know?
I want one thing,
one more thing I want to add is when I talk about concentrating me focused,
I would set up the time management.
You don't want to try in,
cause I know everybody,
everybody that's,
you know,
been overseas.
It's like,
oh I got trouble.
I have trouble concentrating.
Right?
So,
so,
so what you want to do is you want to chunk down your time so you're not trying
to force yourself to concentrate for six straight hours.
You know,
you want to,
hey mom,
own a bang out an hour and a half right now.
And I'm going to get into this,
but never going to go roll Jujitsu.
And when I come back and we'll do another hour and a half and I'm going to do a
workout and I'm gonna come back,
I'm gonna do another hour,
they're going to hang out for a little bit,
eat some dinner,
and then I'm going to go and you know,
finish up and review stuff then tonight.
So that's one way to overcome the attention span disorder that we all have a VA
I can't concentrate on.
That's right out.
One way to overcome that is to try and do stuff for short periods of time.
Even when I was writing the book,
I didn't write for 10 hours at a time.
I wrote for an hour,
you know,
50 minutes.
But I did it every day consistently.
And that's how you,
so you want to chunk this stuff down so you don't have to sit there and focus.
Sometimes you have to,
but you don't want to have to sit there and focus on something for six straight
hours.
It's difficult.
Yeah,
man.
Give yourself the rest.
How are you saying like,
um,
and this comes from a lack of perspective.
I mean,
to not be able to do this or to choose not to do it or whatever it comes from.
Again,
a lack of perspective that an 18 year old would have.
But going back how you can get smarter and understand that you're using that to
be more educated,
better person.
So if you're kind of call it gamification,
what you're doing is going to make this into a game,
right?
So use that like,
okay,
let's say I learned about whatever x,
y,
Z.
I'm going to use that.
What we learned today,
I mean he's that like on a like back to a video game where you know,
you choose your guy or your kid.
There's this game called super users trying to use it in a real scenario.
You had to apply in real life fully.
But I'm like,
okay,
there's this game called super off road.
You get a truck and you race and if you win you get these points to add
acceleration.
You get to add turbo boost,
you get whatever you got to add and you only have look.
So basically you're doing that.
So now you learn x,
Y,
Z and pick up my bone.
I'm an og,
got x,
Y,
Z in my little brain and I can take on the world with this Xyz.
I just learn.
And you just keep it like that.
That's actually how I feel when I read now.
Not like I just learned about that like boom,
boom,
playing to,
and then now when I get up or whatever,
I'm like,
oh shoot,
I'm kinda like an upgraded person now.
Now that I know about this.
That's what caught,
that's where,
that's great.
That's a great way of thinking about it.
College should upgrade you mentally so you have more firepower to use against
the world and whether they,
yeah,
and for the next class.
Yeah man.
And that lack of perspective.
Then when you're 18 got parties going on,
you're the,
you know,
you can see,
I think you could probably follow fall into that too,
but just less likely cause after come from the military,
if you had,
it's like when you're 18 you're pressured to go to college this way.
After high school,
everyone's stocks in the military.
Guys could fall into the trap of like,
okay,
but thinking about it,
not as likely parties of like partying and course new environment.
So seductive.
Oh absolutely.
Cause you,
these military guys are going to have to GI bill.
They're like roll.
They got a nice car.
Everyone else is struggling students and they're pretty much set,
right.
Popular.
And all of a sudden they're like,
oh yeah,
well you know,
they know about the world.
They've been around the world,
they know how to drink and they know how to party really well and so they can
take a leadership role in partnering with other people and they can have a great
time and that's cool.
But make sure you don't make sure you upgrade your,
your truck while you're there too.
It's like you're more likely when,
especially when you make the decision kind of on your own to go back.
Yeah.
Like I said,
when you're 18 coming out of high school,
everyone's talking to,
your parents are talking about it.
Most likely kids around,
you're like,
Hey,
I got into this college.
Huh?
And if you're the guy who was in a college,
unless you have some cool other cool plan or whatever,
unless you,
unless you just joined the military.
Right.
But that's like another thing,
you know,
they,
they went to the military,
but what are you doing and go to college then you know,
unless you're going to know.
So you kind of go because you're expected to go,
but you don't have that clarity.
Like if you go back,
go back and then you hear like some people nowadays it's populated.
I do think though,
a lot of military guys that once they're getting out,
people say,
what are you going to do now?
Oh and go.
They go,
oh,
well I'm going to go to college and he's my Gi bill and I go,
okay,
yeah.
See you're going to without a,
without a focusing,
without a plan.
So military guys can fall into that trap as well and that's why I'm hoping that
they're listening to this going,
hey,
you know what?
Absolutely take advantage of that fact that you're with a bunch of people and
you can hang out.
You can party
and have a good time,
but have the discipline that you win.
Yeah.
None of it matters that partying doesn't mean anything if you don't win every
day and make yourself better and come out of there with the ability now to set
yourself up for a good life because that's what college is supposed to do.
It's supposed to give you opportunity.
Yeah.
That's what you want is opportunities that you can take it.
Vantage of it and still a true and it's like I,
I'm thinking back to any party hangout situation.
It's not serving me at all right now at all.
Not One.
And I think that was like that's what really got in the way and not partying.
Like I was in this big party here cause it wasn't the case.
The social scene we'll just pulled,
had way more of a draw than making it too.
Of course.
You know,
you're a human being.
You like social activity.
Most human beings like that.
Yeah man.
Not all of us considered around and be like,
no I do not.
Negative one is speak to other
people.
If I went to college for,
you know,
if I found myself in that situation it would be just like how you said you bring
your a game.
Bring me every single day.
I wouldn't literally,
it'd be,
you know how like when you train for a tournament and you're here,
yeah,
guys are going at it.
That's the last thing I want to do.
I want to eat right now.
I'm going to rest and I can't wait to get back to training so I can learn some
new stuff getting better shape,
you know?
So it's like laser focus,
Yeah.
And even if it's not like focusing on the goal the whole time,
you're focusing on winning that day and winning the next day,
winning this week,
you know,
man that that's a valuable tool.
Men,
valuable advice as well.
Dig It.
Next question.
Can you discuss peer leadership a bit such as during the Bolc,
which is basic officer leader course than the army,
an army ranger school or other training environments without a command
structure.
I know you've touched on it before and said that it's probably probably the
toughest form of leadership,
but if you could discuss things that have worked well for you in any tips and
these environments.
So pure leadership and actually whether that's harder than leading up the chain
of command,
which takes the most amount of nuance and technique and savvy as opposed to pure
leadership,
which definitely takes a lot as well.
And there's nothing new here.
Yeah.
Nothing new.
And you're trying to lead peers.
Just like when you're trying to lead up the chain of command,
who was trying to lead down the chain of command?
What are you gonna do?
Number one,
you gotta be humble.
You're going to listen.
You're going to lead.
When it's time to lead,
you're going to follow when it's time to follow.
Take the hard jobs.
Work hard.
Put the priority on the team instead of yourself.
Accept the blame when things go wrong.
Give credit away to the team when things go right.
Keep your ego in check.
And keeping your ego in check is very important because when it comes to pure
leadership,
this turns into like there's a little ego struggle going on.
There's actually a big ego struggle coming on over the top of the whole time
because eat what are actually competing
with each other in some form for promotion,
for authority,
for recognition.
So you're going to want that credit.
You're going to want to be recognized,
and those little things inside your brain.
If you really want to be a good peer leader,
you got to let him go.
You gotta let them go.
You got to stay humble.
Now,
for instance,
when you come up with a plan,
you can't get addicted to your plan.
You can't think that your plan,
you can't impose your plan on your peers.
You don't want to do that.
You want to hear other people out that in fact,
one way to build leadership credibility is when you become champions of other
people's plants and you call it,
man,
that's awesome.
I'll run with it.
And you take a leadership role with someone else's planned.
How cool is that?
They actually love you.
Then they say,
man,
Jocko doesn't have any ego.
He's running with the plan.
I pull it out and he's given me credit for it.
Of course you're building leadership,
leadership,
uh,
credited with that person now.
So those are all,
those are challenges,
right?
A lot of that,
again,
boils back to ego.
But the other thing is you gotta be Mentally Nimble when you're doing pure
leadership because you're going to be constantly shifting back and forth and
back and forth and back and forth between the dichotomies of leadership,
the things of being aggressive.
But not being overbearing,
being a leader and being a follower,
stepping up and yet not stepping on people's toes.
So you got to,
you got to balance those and you've got to,
to be going back and forth between those all the time.
And that's what makes,
that's what makes peer leadership hard because if you and I are peers,
if I'm in charge,
you then,
then we know that.
And so I can kind of,
I can be a little bit more
inactive in my balancing act because I'm in charge.
So Hey,
echo,
this is what we're gonna do.
You know,
I can be less active and balancing and eve eat.
Same thing if you work for me,
we know what the roles are,
your leader,
I'm following it.
It's that the other way around.
Um,
I'm leading in your following.
We know what the roles are.
We the appear.
It's just constantly balancing.
And if I go too strong in one direction,
I'm going to affect your,
I'm going to Uf,
I'm a new offend your ego,
which is going to make you turn against me,
which is where all these problems come from.
So the,
and the biggest thing about that,
about that balance is what makes you good at balancing it is knowing that it's
there.
That's what gives you the ability to balance is that you know,
that you are balancing.
When people don't know that they're balancing,
that's when they're just like,
Hey,
I'm,
I'm leading,
I'm stepping up.
So they just lead and everyone goes,
man,
this guy's a,
he has a big ego care.
That's what you don't want to do.
But when you know that,
hey,
if I'm stepping up to lead right now,
I need to pay attention to look around and see how people are taking it and make
sure that I'm getting the support to people.
And if I'm not,
then I'll go,
hey,
echo,
you know,
you seem to have really good important how this,
why don't you take this section and lead it so that people see,
oh,
Jockos is not trying to take control everything.
He's not a control freak.
That's what you want to make happen.
So that is in a nutshell some advice on how to lead in the peer situations fully
in the when when you first meet someone's up here,
especially guys guys have this a lot where if they're even close to being you
identity wise,
like you know within a certain age of view,
within a certain build of you or whatever,
your brain goes into this like real focus mode.
S small,
pretty bright and it,
it wants to make a decision.
Is this guy my enemy?
Well my friend,
I want one of them.
I don't care which one,
but I just got to figure out what it is.
So automatically you feel sense of competition when you see a guy near you in
your environment.
You know like if you're,
you get,
you go to the gym or you go to Jujitsu.
Like what happens if a new guy walks in and he's about your size and he walks
into the Jujitsu?
Yeah,
there's arena.
There is competition assessment.
Oh don't let them be wearing a black belt.
Oh that's even close to you.
You know?
Now it's like,
okay,
what does this guy,
you know,
who is this guy?
And then we've got something to settle,
but let's say he rolls up to,
and he's just so nice to you and you and then you guys roll.
He's good,
he gets you whatever to me.
But he's really nice.
He likes the same football team you like I'm saying,
he disarmed me by saying,
hey man,
what's going on here?
It's really good to meet you.
I've heard of you.
I know you trying with Dean lister,
Dean lister listers,
like one of the main guys I've always liked.
It's great to meet you Jocko.
I appreciate you guys letting me come to the gym,
man.
Love to roll with you sometime.
You know,
if you get the chance,
just,
you know,
I know a really respect y'alls game,
right?
Yes,
exactly right.
So boom.
Now that decision that you like on this primal level have to make,
I made.
You're like,
okay,
I got you.
I mean,
you're my friend,
you're my ally.
But you get a guy who only mad dogs,
you,
but with other calculations,
he's kind of the same as you.
More or less.
Yeah.
If he's mad.
So now this is the thing to take what you're saying,
which is 100% right.
And folks,
this isn't just about Jujitsu,
obviously,
this is about at life.
And when you meet a person that comes into your office and they're a,
they have a role at their company or within your company or when I had another
company and you're meeting them for the first time and you know that there's
somewhere equivalent of what you're there in the EVP or they're an SVP or
they're a VP and you know that you are to where they are,
a regional manager or whatever the case may be,
you're automatically doing an assessment.
So what do you want to do?
Do you want to,
do you want to bring them to make the friend decision or foe decision?
Right?
Let's be leaders.
And that's the key right there.
Create relationships.
Not adversaries.
Yes.
Boar,
not adversarial relationship.
Yes.
Um,
plant words obviously.
But yeah,
and the key there,
how you were saying is you want them to make the decision that you're their
friend.
You're not saying you make the decision that that's your friend and you know
what else?
Just going to ego and insecurities.
The more secure you are as a person,
the easier it is to be nice to him.
Right?
Like when someone comes into the gym and they're mad dog in me,
it's not hard for me to be like,
hey man,
what's going on?
Hey,
where are you from?
Because I know I've been training for a long time.
I know that they're not gonna mop the map up with me.
That's not as not going to happen.
All right mate.
Thank cause I'm,
I'm confident,
I'm secure.
I know I've been training for a long time.
If I'm in a business world and I meet someone and I know that there might be
close to my equivalent,
am I insecure where I got to bow up to them and act like a tough guy?
No,
I'm actually confident that what I do as well,
what I do is good.
I know I need a good team.
I know that I'm solid.
I know I know my information well.
I know I'm a hard worker,
so why am I going to go up to him?
I got,
I'm not threatened by them.
It's no big deal to me.
Let's do this.
Right.
And Yeah,
and even if you feel though you're compelled to kind of have those feelings or
to do something to blow up or whatever,
cause maybe you are insecure,
not everyone's secure,
whatever.
Um,
just keep it on the inside,
you know,
don't behave like that.
Yeah.
Just know that okay,
I'm feeling this,
but I'm going to cause like,
because when somebody bows up to you,
when somebody goes up to me,
I don't get the feeling that they're secure and confident and I don't even get
the feeling that they're good.
I get the feeling like,
oh,
this guy's protecting something.
This guy is hiding something.
He must not be that good because he's intimidated by me.
That's why he's balling up to me.
If he wasn't intimidated by me,
he'd be treated me cool.
But he isn't intimidated by me.
So the tougher you trying to act,
that's actually at to a skilled kind of person that can read people.
The tougher you try and act,
the weaker you actually appear.
Now if you're running around intimidating white belts either in the business
world or on the g two mad,
that doesn't matter because you can wait anyways.
Yup.
So be intimidating the white belt.
Yeah.
All right.
Well yeah,
make them want to be friends with you.
That's a good one.
I'm gonna read out me though.
Okay,
next question Jocko.
How would you have handled the leadership role in the first world war trench in
the trenches?
In other words,
seemingly helpless situation.
This is,
this is a question that I didn't even want to answer cause it's just such a
brutal question and that's why I did answer it because I want to have some
brutal questions and I would love to think that I would have stood up like a man
and like I hero and donut everything in my
power to stop the madness and to come up with a new way and protest the few
title tactics and raise my hand and say,
we're not doing this,
sir.
I will not send my men to their deaths.
I would love to think that that's what I would have done.
And I can tell you when,
when,
when I was told to do things in Iraq that I fought,
we shouldn't be doing.
I said,
hey,
you know what?
That's not a good idea.
Let's find another way.
Let's do some different.
So I know I've done that before,
but we got,
we got,
we had operations that we looked at and said,
you know what?
This is not a smart operation.
There's a really high risk and there's very low reward.
Let's,
let's,
let's not do that one.
Let's find another way to do it.
So I know I've done that,
but you take me in,
you put me in a world war one trench.
Now we have a different mind.
I have a different brain and the thing that I'm scared of,
the thing that haunts me is what if my mind was trapped?
What if I couldn't see the futility of the situation?
Because everyone's saying no.
You know what?
When we do this attack,
we've done these things and we've prepared for it and we've got more bombs.
We're going to drop,
we've got more artillery.
This is going to be the one
you just need to go over the top one more time.
Or what if I believe that?
What if I couldn't see this solutions in front of me?
And that's what scares me
is
what if you become so brainwashed and close minded that you cannot see any more
and you lose your ability to think.
Mm.
And that's why all the time you're going to hear me say free your mind.
That's what I'm talking about for your mind.
That is the situation that I am talking about.
Question,
what is around you?
Question the status quo and question the authority and the leadership and your
subordinates.
Question everything
in order to make sure that you're not the wing a a well worn path.
Okay.
Oh well worn path that other people have gone by.
Maybe it's a path that you've walked before but it's a well worn path and it's a
path that leads to suffering in pain and tragedy and you can't get off the path
because your mind is not free.
So
how would I have handled the leadership situation in World War One?
I cannot honestly answer that question but the way I try and live and the way I
try and think
is one with an open mind,
a free mind that can see,
that can see different perspectives that can detach from what's being told to me
and I can question it and I can come up with a diff different solution.
Free your mind.
Sound Nice to tough question.
Next question.
Jocko.
Echo.
Tough versus smart.
So wait,
what is this
do you think?
Is this like,
is it better to be tough than smart or just in general?
Well,
you just read the question as it was stated.
It just said tough topic for podcasts.
Tough versus smart.
And in my opinion,
I don't think you need to be tough versus smarter and you don't think it needs
to be tough or smart.
I think you need to be tough and smart,
right?
I don't think those two traits are mutually exclusive at all.
And being tough and being smart is actually what we want.
We,
you know,
so when we think of tough,
I think we think of using,
for instance,
using blunt force to solve a problem,
right?
And and you might think that using blunt force to solve a problem is stupid.
And at the same time you might think that stepping back from a problem and
taking a look or stepping back away from it might be giving up.
So your week
or you're not tough.
But there are times when those options are the best options.
There's some times when blunt force is the best option and you just got to power
through and you got to be tough and you got to get over the hurdle or over the
obstacle or through the obstacle through blunt force trauma
and there's other times where the best possible thing you could do is step back
and quit beating your head against the wall and trying to blunt force through
something.
You want to step back and find another way.
You want to be smarter,
not harder
and I think again,
this comes out to balance and people pushing
when it's a good time to push in a good time to be tough and at the same time
knowing that you need to balance that with being smart and the only way you're
going to be able to do that,
the only way you're going to be able to figure if you're just being too smart or
not smart enough or too tough or not tough enough is to be able to detach and
step back and look and see,
assess the situation.
If you get too in the weeds on it,
you won't be able to see that,
hey,
you've beat your head against the wall 47 times.
That's enough.
Stop step back and find another way.
Just like if you're so engrossed in solving the problem and finding the perfect
solution and finding the least impact,
wave through the smartest resolution you don't.
If you don't step back from that,
you might not see that.
If you wait any longer on your brilliant plan,
you're going to be overrun by the problem itself.
So being smart and being tough or not mutually exclusive,
you need to be both and the way that you balance them is by stepping back and
detaching and doing.
Always doing an assessment of what's happening.
So what if you had to choose,
and I'm going to make the question even harder.
No specific scenario.
What if you had to choose?
You got to be either really smart but not tough or really smart or really tough
and not smart.
What?
What would the tooth,
yeah.
Unfortunately you have to go with being smarter.
It's not unfortunate,
but it's just the,
the,
the reality is being smarter is better because being smarter means you can find
another solution.
But you know,
the,
the wall that you might be banging your head against might literally be
impassable through that,
through that section.
And if all you're going to do is beat your head against it,
eventually you're going to,
you're going to not make and you're going to die.
So being smart is always better.
Yeah.
And a,
I guess I should add it just in life,
let's say,
you know,
the really,
the question I was wondering is like in life,
you know,
God was there and he said,
okay,
I'm going to be still one of these on you in just in your life.
You can either have a knack for being really smart,
but not tough at all.
Or really tough and not be as fun smart because he,
it's,
um,
I shouldn't even be like making this like this is a hard decision,
right?
Being smarter is better beings.
Being smarter is better.
There's no doubt about it.
That's being smarter is better.
But by the way,
being smarter,
look at the human race.
Why do we rule the world over the animals?
I mean,
you tell me that you're tougher than a,
than a chimpanzee.
Well,
yeah,
but I'm just saying the only reason that the thing that wins his intellect and
it will win every single time.
Well at a win a lot of the time,
a lot of the time.
And if you're smart,
you can figure out a way to overcome the toughness.
Be Tough.
Yeah.
And not even that's it's called [inaudible].
Yeah,
exactly.
Right,
exactly right.
Like when you say,
are you to,
am I tougher than a gorilla?
We'll say,
well,
in a way,
yeah.
You know,
I mean I'm a shotgun or if I have a,
yeah.
Anything,
you know,
anything that I think up to build or buy,
because of other people like thought it up and I used
their knowledge,
you know,
cause I was that smart to do it.
Which goes back to the original question to,
or what question we answered a little while ago about college.
Like go to college and improve your smartness.
Get smarter.
Yup.
Yeah.
That's why.
That's why we say that on the podcast.
I'm not album,
I'm not always talking about being stronger and faster and bigger and tougher.
I'm always talking about you gotta be smarter to no doubt about it.
The success I've had from my life is zero of it just about zero,
but has come from anything physical or being tough.
Now there is a mental toughness that does help you when you are doing
intellectual things.
I mean,
I can force myself to do some intellectual goals or some intellectual challenges
that if I wasn't,
if I didn't,
I didn't Tufts and the best word,
but if I wasn't mentally tough,
I won't be able to do it.
Right?
Yeah.
But if you're smart enough,
you're smart.
Figure out ways to get mentally tough.
Like if you're like,
Hey,
I know I'm not mentally tough and smart enough to know I'm not mentally tough or
I'm enough is again,
let me figure out a way to get meant.
I'll figure out a good workout.
Who would you rather be?
The guy that is really tough and can stay in cold water for 45 minutes or the
guy that invents a wetsuit like Jacko Neal and I can stay in the water for an
unlimited amount of time.
Now there you go.
Case in point,
Jack O'Neill,
keeping it real name dropper.
Next question.
I didn't say I knew
me and Jack,
we go way back
for one more maybe.
Maybe.
Uh,
okay.
Jocko.
As far as self improvement and getting after it goes,
who's standard should one measure themselves?
But
so who do I use as a standard to measure myself by?
It's,
it's really everyone
and no one
because there's people in the world that have skills and strength and talent
that I will never have.
Oh,
bring some of these notions that you can be whatever you want to be as,
as long as you want it bad enough.
Those that are not true.
There are fairy tales.
Okay.
We all have limitations
and I don't have the right genes to be an Olympic weightlifting champion.
I don't have the right genetics to be in the Olympic champion sprinter or a
gymnast or whatever sport you want a name.
Now,
I'm sure if I trained my whole life,
perhaps I could have achieved some high level in those sports,
but I can tell you I
do not have the DNA to be the best in the world in those categories.
Yeah.
So what does that mean?
Okay.
Does that mean that I give up?
Does that mean they're like quit?
Of course not.
Okay.
Not at all.
It means that I'm going to try to be the best that I can be.
The strongest,
the fastest,
the smartest,
the smartest human that I can become.
That's what I'm going to go for and I will,
I will compare myself to others in and look at them and see what they're doing
and I'll say that it is possible.
How close can I get to that greatness?
How close can I get to that glory.
But the reality is
that my glory,
it doesn't happen in front of a crowd.
It doesn't happen in a stadium.
It doesn't happen on a stage.
Okay?
There's no metals handed out.
My glory happens in the darkness of the early morning
in solitude alone.
Yeah.
Where I try
and I try and I try again to be everything that I possibly can be the best that
I possibly can be better than I was yesterday
in better than other people thought I could be
faster and stronger and smarter and with one victory that no one can ever take
away from me.
A victory that is earned every single day,
a victory of determination and will and discipline
and a victory that is achieved because I will not stop.
And I think that's
all I've got for tonight.
So once again,
thanks to everyone for listening and downloading and supporting the podcast
through the various options that we have to do.
So Echo,
what are those options?
Options,
if you care about supplementation,
the good kind that work I'm go to on it on it.
Supplements,
Alpha brain for your brain,
make you smarter,
make quicker decisions,
memory,
all that stuff.
Proven to work.
By the way,
I don't know if you knew that.
You know,
some,
some supplements they don't prove,
they just say,
hey,
this is what's in it.
That's it.
These ones are proven.
And you can even go on the website,
look@alltheirresearchiscoolanywayonit.com slash Jocko 10% off,
boom.
Or before you do your Amazon shopping,
just remember to go to Jocko podcast.com or Jocko store.com.
Just click on the Amazon link and then we get a little part,
a little cut to support the podcast.
Like passive supporting.
It's like easy,
you know,
but it costs you nothing plus you.
Nothing.
You're actually just getting after it,
but you're,
but you're supporting the podcast for free.
Yup.
Dig it yet.
That is legit.
Um,
or if if you like to shirts and mugs and stuff,
you know,
if you're into that,
which I know I am.
Um,
they're pretty cool.
We do,
I do add like layers to the shirts,
you know,
they're not just look cool saying or discipline equals freedom.
That's it.
There's like more to it.
You know,
it's like you're saying need,
I don't know,
you know,
church to cool in my opinion,
if that's your opinion as well.
Look at it.
You're saying there's a whole nother level of cool to the shirts that you make.
I think they're cool but I don't want to make it,
there you go.
But I don't want to be like,
hey,
they're cool.
And then people will be like,
you know,
they have a different opinion and not cool.
I don't want to be the guy pushing not cool stuff.
I think they're cool.
Go to chocolate store.com if you think they're cool,
good,
get one or two and that's also supporting the podcast and you're getting cool
shirt.
That's cool.
We did that.
Yeah.
And I used the,
actually people ask me this so it is relevant where,
what kind of shirts do I use?
I use the blended one,
poly poly cotton blend.
So they're like softer does,
there's a bunch of different kinds of,
is a really light one and then there's like a medium but still soft.
And you know,
that's the one I chose because the light one,
it's good.
And I liked those a lot,
but some people might not,
you know,
too late maybe.
Yeah,
maybe.
I Dunno,
but um,
I figured that out in,
but it's their dope anyway.
They're the high quality ones.
They're not the ballpark giveaway shirts,
you know?
Yeah,
they're good.
Anyway,
there you go.
Jocko,
store.com check them out for yourself and then,
um,
yeah,
there you go.
Well also you can support the podcast by reviewing it on iTunes or stitcher or
Google play or whatever you listen to it on.
And that helps promote the podcast and spread the word.
So take a couple minutes and write a review and I read them.
So say something cool in there and say something cool and then I'll,
I'll talk about it.
It'll be in my brain.
So I liked that.
They don't let you respond to them on iTunes zone.
You're like,
I can't say like,
hey man,
thanks.
Yeah.
Cause it essentially it's,
it's a review.
It's not like a conversation.
I know,
but it shouldn't be.
It should be a conversation.
So I can be like,
hey man,
thanks.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
There is that,
that will be cool.
Well,
but then again,
if,
if people think that you're going to like respond to it,
they might not
say something cool.
You know what some people have done,
they've,
uh,
like taking a screenshot of it and then put it on Twitter and that way I can be
like,
oh,
that's cool man.
That's awesome.
Appreciate it.
Or I can say,
hey,
good point.
Yup.
We'll,
we'll,
we'll think about that.
Yeah.
We'll make some adaptations,
adaptations,
perhaps,
perhaps not,
but getting a screenshot of their iTunes review that that's a message in and of
itself that saying,
Hey,
I put a review on iTunes.
It's not necessarily,
hey,
you know,
your audio is too quiet.
You know,
it's not that if they wanted to tell you that,
they tell you that in Twitter.
Yeah.
At least they're showing,
right.
Right.
That,
hey this is,
this is,
this is funny cause I would like to see like some reviews,
like there's some people that write reviews that I laugh at because they're fun.
They're like,
I am definitely getting after it.
10 Nate,
you know what?
I go,
that's awesome man.
Yeah.
This guy,
this guy talked to all the time,
Brady,
he,
he'll like shop at Amazon and it'll be like click screenshot.
That's awesome man.
So that's cool.
Appreciate that.
And also of course,
if you want to continue this conversation like we just talked about or you want
to ask questions or you want to give us feedback or you want to send us a
screenshot of your Amazon purchase or you just want to kick it with us,
then you can find us on the inner webs on Twitter.
Echo Charles is at Echo,
Charles and I am at Jocko Willink.
We're also there with Facebook and the Instagram.
And we do appreciate what you do for us,
the questions or support,
the comments,
the fact that all of you are out there getting better,
putting these principles to work on the battlefield in your business and your
personal life.
I'd seen a bunch of seal buddies that I have and they're,
they're into it,
they're listening and they're giving me feedback and that,
that is worth everything to me to know.
And I'll get a bunch of emails from marines,
from cops,
from firefighters that they tell me that they are putting this stuff to work.
I get emails from business people that they're putting this stuff to work and
that's what we're doing this for,
you know?
And so that's what inspires me to do this and keep doing this and for me to push
myself because you are pushing yourself out there earning that victory every
single day by going out there
and getting after it.
And so until next time,
this is echo and Jocko out.